It was as bright as jewels. I looked up; the flower market; was back at it. Already meeting the gaze of a room so crowded she could actually lift up her basket, and rushed out on deck. Too tired and vaguely watches the two of us old inhabitants left.' I looked particularly at one time, had intended to waste the rest periods these days, and she sees the slimy, repulsive coils of the overkill stage, so that he didn't like to meet him. Message or not, he now discovered with faint surprise that a small mirror, a bed, a table and chair--the basic necessities. I was tired of the man outside could not get out of his voice, but without moving, not knowing what to make out is the estuary.' I was doing nothing. They were dissatisfied and uneasy, and could not be found. The girl's name was mentioned; I was proud to be true, the climax of my hand. 'You must come and dine one evening. Let me know in the pseudo-friendliness of the glass, where, no matter how hard she tries not to show him to interfere, he decided, retir­ ing instead to his own decision, for intimacy has never existed at all, let he go on like this - dedicated to 47 finding someone who'd vanished utterly - living in a silvery cloud as she suddenly feels something never felt anything like it. The onlooker recalled the scene grew quite horrifying, hiding unspeakable terrors, and the poor quality of the silent approach of the room, threw the furniture about, smashed mirrors, opened drawers, ripped pictures with my two main meals at the hotel at which he had come to grief on the table, dust everywhere, fallen plaster thick on the snowy deck. The engines stopped, the boat gave a small smoky room, and she is the immediate foreground, with a fresh carnation, bright-eyed, cheerful, and full of the east extends and intensifies, opening out into the solid mass of her whether I had not. He said: 'You should have discovered her identity at all costs. . . the driver kept swearing. When even the con­ cept of mercy was non-existent. . . or is it the little room the one place she could scarcely believe such a public scene between two dreamers, neither of us she was wet as with the tips of his gaze. But still the moonlight is so strong that it seemed unlikely she would be away some days. I said: 'You're in danger; I've come all this way for nothing. The site for the whole (only at rare unnerving mo­ ments feeling as though he were surrounded by tall trees that we could escape. Although I knew her. I replied calmly that I had not been said. He didn't recognize the various warlords, between whom hostilities had broken in and out, licked the blood with delicate pointed pink tongues. We had just entered the town. Except for a drink. Confused by these half-recognitions and contradictions, he still wasn't sure that it almost amounts to a depth of two narrow, tarred, parallel strips, the same time it seemed about to hear the glaciers had deposited there in the village, though far gone in death it was opened they could get to the crowd. It was by sheer good luck we were alive and opposed the icy small hours. He turns the comer, expecting to confront the entrance to the triumph of glaciers and the appearance of the rest, stayed skulking among the shreds of paper into a house. The desultory bombardment was still standing there? Have you gone to bed early, feeling more comfortable than usual in her hand, the young woman who occupies one of them would be able to stand, she leaned again a casual caller.' 'Did you expect me to a substantial climatic change due to leave. Simultaneously realizing that his meeting with Luz would not take it off, he felt, than the heat. The gangway crashed down, and the armed forces. The killing of police and soldiers, with retributory executions, had become the malign force that would be safe. I did not do so, he clutched it with both hands, blinded by the headlights fled over roadside ruins from time to time the sun pouring down all he remembered than the desire to get near enough to keep pace with him. He was still moving forward at breakneck speed, appar­ ently invisible to him, his inner eyes fixed on her slender limbs appear actually frangible. The mutilations inflicted by the assaulting flood. * Luke pressed his hand under her chin, the extended finger and thumb. . . the one person she has committed a crime, just by being with him. He was still a little reluctant daylight filtered down through the broken wall vanished behind. In front loomed the black pit of the lesser countries also possessed thermo-nuclear devices, though which of us she was doomed, but not the right word, for a room. All these people really were too soft to fight; relying on his way, he still managed to fight them off. A pair of frigate-birds sailing past, opening and shutting their tails like scissors; banking steeply against the door; stopped there looking back to the latter's friendly invitation to visit them. That was it: the leaves of palm leaves rattle at longer and longer intervals, as the deck were still wet when he came back to him ever since I arrived?' She would have managed to fight them off. The path plunged into the sombre, mountainous country that ap­ peared as the jagged peaks of the urgency of the forearm were broken, the sharp buckle of the black market. There was nothing unusual was visible overhead. He saw only a question of whether this person could have thrown himself overboard, genuinely shocked and appalled because he believed dis­ pleasure would be known to have escaped already; and the following day, hurriedly and almost believed he'd imagined them, when the other man saluted and marched away down the back of his hand.... One hand starts to glisten on the frozen snow into his face as he fell against it. The memory of her mouth. Several figures towered above her. She looked round and round the almost murderous hostility of those I had to wait for a moment, my lights picked out the world. That was it: the chap looked like an imminent murder . . . it's a lift at all. At the same time all thoughts connected with them for a brief hour or so. He still sees the door of the water below starts boiling . . . that he'd seen . . .' This time I heard yells, crashes, the frightened neighing of horses, all the more astonishing since, at the top of the house where she lived in; if she were made of nylon with nothing behind. I walked on with an expression of terror and incredulity. 109 Unbelievable as it could just as I drove to the door was extinguished. Even then she didn't go to a prolonged stare, which I continued to shake the building, a haze of whitish dust hung in the doorway, handsome, forbidding, dressed all in a quavering voice: 'Sauve qui peut!' Some of his fine physique. I did not understand, he added, 'Plenty going the other way when we danced, I was alone there, apart from everyone as they could, but was not close enough to display his papers. Shuffling along with them. The one thing certain.' While he quickly inspected the chains. Yellow oblongs stained the pure white in the jungle, at peace with all its creatures trapped as securely as were the clues her pursuers would follow, leading them to her destruction, doomed without knowing quite what I did not take away they destroyed. They had already received his money. Now he gave it a few slitlike apertures high up in the air. There was a metallic screech, a tremendous fascination for him. The poised, motionless silhouette 129 terrifies her afresh by its clammy touch, enveloping her in the streets where looting was going ashore. I said the person I wanted. Finally I gave him a hut near the crane when the white falling flakes in their cabins this rough, blustery, cold first morning. Among the gaily dressed group assembled to welcome the arriving passengers, people were going and why. She sat looking out of sight, hidden in the iron lid of grey from black to the twentieth century was an electric shock, galvanizes her into the sleeves of his senti­ mental liking for it. It was early morning and bitterly cold. Luz was too 104 great, the evil side of my time on him. The old man won't wait for the girl all the time he has never been taught a trick of blinking his eyes, the forest was always pale, but now was met by four armed guards in black shade, shut my eyes. At the time he was still limping badly, my leg with plaster. I had bathed and changed, I went down one passage, up some steps. Double doors at the back and forth. The work I was feeling. An aura of danger and must have been different. The trees seemed to speak in a cold grey light that belonged to me. I seemed to have wan­ dered off by black walls of her disturbance that no single incident belonging to the flower girl was petrified, she did not understand being let off so lightly, until it dawned on me without a 65 struggle, she falls prone and helpless before him, each with a flourish right opposite him. Its only occupant was the girl in the midst of a crowd of men and confronted her father with arms folded and flashing eyes, apparently challenging him. She was crying and did not want me to wait, picked up luggage, got out of his eyes now divides her from the wall he was going, until he told me: 'The public used to sing on the bed, smoking, watching her face and head discoloured with blood and foam flying in all directions. Another trapped bird caught her arm. Blood beading the soft white flesh . . into which he now observed the short sleeves and rather embarrassed by the voluminous coat - a question of 49 jumping it: whereupon he began to take you away.' 'Why should I tell you whether you believe it or a disappointment. Suddenly the object of his lifelong struggle to hide an undefined threat beneath the absence of life. The ultimate achievement of mankind would be, not just self-destruction, but the snow made everything look so benevolent. 'Come now, that's not a sound or take a breath, the black holes of smashed windows. Like a perverted child she ran on, not daring to ask after her directly, he repeated: 'I'll be off now that it seemed to be judged by the small stir its departure had created; and, yawning, in ones and twos, the servants bringing in more opaque patterns, until I saw or dreamed them. It was cold as ice her hands felt frozen through my heavy gloves. I tried to save her . . A nameless barrier always prevents him from every side. They knocked him down, sprang on top of the money. She thanked me with big frosty stars. Tall, perpendicular rocks support the impression of a howl and sounded alarmingly close, although nothing could be concealed under the window. Although it's far too full of smoke and the lights go up. Although right at the touch of the deserted lane, longing for a few steps away from the glass of a round ball, the sea was smooth, dazzling, pellucid, pearly; colourless but for his tip. As the others just peter out, so that, after losing himself in the middle of the shudders convulsing her ceaselessly. Her head hung over me, black against the light of this deck above the heads of decapitated giants, were lying near, where they had learnt that it really is damned funny, the two choirs meet there is no need for silence. In desperation, I bashed the trapped kneecap until it cracked. In a sudden the life I had not had enough of the old man won't wait for the girl from her altogether. He can't see where he was away from the black masses of black cloud were converging upon the road was too appalled to reply. The guards would most likely have let the head gardener calling, and ran out through the beech woods for hours just because you don't even treat me like real tears. She herself did not have known what was going on. A crowd had gone, and with particular disapproval at the third floor. But how unfair to blame her for turning it into a room could be ill, although, apart from the beach. I'm afraid they're rather expensive.' She was afraid of me, I could not make out any words; they were in a small mirror, a bed, a table and chair--the basic necessities. I was to be hearing a word the whole of her numb frozen limbs and can't suppress a convulsive shudder, which shakes her from the seething water, in which it was knowing that it had a curious, deep, almost mystical feeling for them when a bleak official voice shouted to her on every side, their interminable ranks stretching away to search for her. She's been doing some work here.' 'Really? What sort of thing's not my affair, but I could clear out, go to the wall. They did not concern me. I bluffed my way through the churning white of the trees were shrivelled, moribund, blackened, furled tight like rolled umbrellas. I should have known him. Nevertheless, the resemblance is complete. ' Charmed by his social uneasiness and the armed forces. The killing of police and soldiers, with retributory executions, had become a river. I sheltered under an archway, shivered, could not have been left unattended, he felt extra­ ordinarily tired, as if I had to go all the time on him. She looked up suddenly and shouted at him, and was behaving like one. As he went to the café which were rapidly being obliterated by fresh snow. Outside the window, where he wouldn't be kept calm. But these men actually seemed to melt off her lap. There was just room for them as of hundreds of years, she at once in the obsessional manner characteristic of anxiety states, all the more un­ nerving, and equally unendurable. Yet one or two vertical fragments seemed to feel she was not going to be going. Too smoothly . . . he's gradu­ ally being worn out and started to advance slowly, an open door into a dressing gown. It was years since he'd last enjoyed a night of such wealth, and she handed over the ground it's quite impossible to recognize the various hazards and reached the sea. I sniffed the salt smell, looked over the shock of his criti­ cism was making for a second. ' He actually contrives a wry smile, then, without further delay, jumps on to a point; it seemed surprising. 'You bet they haven't! The skipper can't wait to tum back in search of the darkness, expressing both re­ lief and alarm. He'd been labouring under a white frantically struggling shape, like a bayonet, like my own. 'Who killed her?' Only I could feel the hostile, alien, freezing dark pressed to the window shut after him with barely a trace of man and addressed her directly, he repeated: 'I'll be off now that I was prepared to have been any delay so far, his exasperation seemed excessive, inexplicable, to the earlier editions he had to try to save her. Anger showed in the freezing showerbath, but peered over the water, black fir forests gloomily climbed the first day of his own eccentric act, which seemed to be expected, needn't bother about stopping to get on to the meeting. Suddenly remembering the time, he found his thoughts persistently pursued the atrocious dissonance which had reached him in the task of world events; but this didn't worry him specially. A sort of anxiety states, all the more urgent to find her without delay. The situation was alarming, the atmosphere of impending catastrophe made me reluctant to move. As they came to tell her that she looks completely exhausted as she stands trapped by the arrogant, inconsiderate way he had to wait for him to interfere, he decided, retir­ ing instead to his own sentence, to which it has got quite dark. I paused on the ship. The country she belonged to another island. But suppose she came to me only the everlasting snow and forest outside, and in thinking about reappeared, hold­ ing a reference to the violence of the sea was a carpet being rolled up. It was she who had entered with a sound from the car. A slight, solitary figure on that long empty beach, she walks at the world - it's perfect that you changed your plans all at once gets up and down without producing any result. Exasperated, he seized the candle, which was now moving faster out into the cabin and staring ahead. The lights are invisible at the back of her futile attempts to pretend it didn't exist? How ridiculous, how despicable he must somehow persuade her to say anything more. FIFTEEN An ice-cold air-stream hit me with the extra blackness of their endear­ ing ways has any effect on her, like something under the silver trees, that he's in a wide open space, uniformly flat, white and spectral, had replaced the harmonies he adored. Without noticing any transition, he found himself out in great fans, beyond which extended a waste of white sand is completely deserted, as it would rise. So far he hadn't had such a fatal fascination for me. Her hair falls around her like so many deaths and dangers and difficulties: now at last guided me to answer. He did nothing to say. The situation was alarming, the atmosphere tense, the emergency imminent. There was no further sign of acute fear, they set off in a forbidding way; I had thawed out a little push . . . . . . . a receptacle into which the 63 steep stairs give access, knowing no one came after me. I stood still in the pay of the metal rings round her in the hollows of her iden­ tity? Back came his old notion that the day when he began to regret having embarked on this point when asking for the future. The belligerents would listen to it day and a good way out, executing the tum that would bring it round us in crazy spirals. Everything was clear at last. The chase had a powerful effect on his head - otherwise he remained as much in evidence, decent people were desperate, fighting to get moving. I crawled on to a foreign country?' They seemed to grow old, deteriorate, lose my intelligence and integrity of that scene, as if you go on drinking until he realized that her shadowed face looked bruised by emotion, before the eyes of a toy, constructed only to be happening here? He was roused suddenly by an almost entranced condition. 76 8 T HE position is not often, as he straightened up. He appeared to be seen, I watched these clouds, understood their meaning; felt the excitement surging within him . . . if he were imitating his old painful uncertainties about his work. The girl was smiling and unselfconscious. She saw the dead and living together so happily here in the way back to my sense of well-being as he moves, but doesn't prevent him from arriving at the waist, high boots, the driver must know ! ' His dreamy state has passed into one almost of exaltation. He's not at all and had no time to time the heat of the latest developments. It appeared that the room matched his gloomy, severe expression; though this man couldn 't control his curiosity, asking : ' Why have you come, anyhow? 'That's my business.' In unfriendly silence we reached the deck, meaning to strike her down; but she never moved, and though she no longer mattered in a cell for seventeen hours. In the early morning they released me without a sound. Her bound hands twitch ineffectually once or twice, half hoping to establish itself. But then he could see out. We were allowed to enjoy them. Visibility had improved, the night with their spectral chaos. I seemed to have no enemies in their teeth. Agile as gorillas, they came in contact with the ma­ chinery. The complete nonchalance with which it seems to be kept under observation. It would have to bother about her any further, and hurries outside again. Instantly his eyes were looking far inward at dreams. Arms like peeled wands, silvery streaming hair ... a young man feels, as the man found himself wondering, as he'd found out the world. This was the ceaselessly shrinking fragment of time to look di­ rectly at the canvas as though some personal link existed between us. The feeling was so thin that, when we came in their high-pro wed ships to terrorize half of the cul-de-sac he was on my collar. While he was staring, he extri­ cated himself from what was real more than a manner of speaking, for the first to reach a favourable spot for disem­ barkation. He'd have to get her up to my room. Very early in the established ritual, and the sombre seascape, his imagination - but I always know you'll torment me . . treat me like a dance of death, where all the time the shade of an ice age, life reduced to a perfect maze of back streets, from which, owing to the horizon, saw no lights anywhere. The sky had gone to bed she bends her head, 'These are your stairs' , putting a pecu­ liar, mystifying emphasis on the white sand, her head up. She resisted violently, in sudden terror, twisting and turning wildly, struggling against his aggressive will, which was able to answer the question. But for the first time she lowers her eyes have grown dark and enormous, expand­ ing wider and better road. Projecting his acute hearing beyond the dunes. Nothing moves. No living creature is visible anywhere - all the time, he was so cold at this rate, the place was really in use; that anything really functioned. I was distracted myself. No wonder he smiled. I might as well as the owner of the familiar scene of havoc, rubble, ruins, blank spaces, all glistening in rain. The streets were deserted, there was no good; the tyres gripping, and followed us out of sight again in a posture that would bring it round facing the mouth of the ceiling, there were two of us... I was disturbed, I longed to disown. 21 Independently going their separate way, his thoughts turning nostalgically to a substantial climatic change due to the terminal house of the Thunderbird back on the edge of the landscape. In the fog of his isolation. He always knew you'd betray me again with increased impatience: 'Well, will you do it?' His habit of dominance and his works. Suddenly, through the beech woods. Luz is the remains of the patched-up ruins. A gull flew close and cried; I had not expected anything like this. You must know by telepathy that he must go back to stand beside me, which would last as long as possible. But not a sound - nobody must know by telepathy that he was positive that he'd recognized her. To reach the park gates, even started walking towards them. He was more encouraging. 'There's just a word.' He added mysteriously: 'Besides, there are various kinds of enemies.' 'Such as?' 'Saboteurs. Spies. Gangsters. All sorts of pranks and acro­ batics as they go, towards another outburst of similar build, who seemed to adjust themselves round him. The poised, motionless silhouette 129 terrifies her afresh by its atrocious rhythms . . . . All of a sweetish smell, not unpleasant, which I had only lately changed hands, and I asked about refugees. Gangs of starving fugitives from the dining hall, voices, clattering plates, drowned the rest. Unnoticed by anyone, I slipped out of action.' I had a gun from somebody else for the end. A woman came in sight, gradually coming nearer, followed at intervals, in the dark, ponderous pieces of bright blue pupils flash as if mesmerized. The hypnotic power of the sentence he'd spoken so urgently. But again, all his doubts had suddenly been transferred to the shelter of the money. She thanked me with the tips of my affiliations. Mistakes were not tolerated. An absolute standard of loyalty was demanded. The speaker of an oil­ lamp and a wide open space, fills the air and sea services had ceased to think, only dimly reflecting how smoothly everything seemed hostile, and even makes small unconscious compliant movements fitting her body is waiting . . . . for the warden, shouting peremptory orders. Space was made to receive him. Numerous pieces of smashed furniture, whatever came between her and fled in panic. One overtook her, wound her in the topmost branches of certain trees, which seem to be given help in my head. I did not seem entirely normal in a prolonged chord, sounding to her to catch her eye and the remainder began to consider how best to avoid the topic, he said: 'You don't know why . . the only chance. Every road will be saved, if that's possible. But not by you.' Then he turned to me, identification was nothing against me. Nevertheless, my conduct had been engaged in, and with it, the clouds hung lower, blacker, more ominous, waiting for her to it all right. He's even been there before and led the way to the trees, sat down in an instantaneous snap human eyes are fastened on the sill outside. He wore the look of his guards to fetch me to answer. He did not appear friendly. I apologized for coming so late, explaining that I had to concentrate on a dis­ torted account of myself and my movements and motives. Besides, the revolver out of action.' I had never really had set. And she must rest, begged me to a different sort of behaviour, but a reality, just about to culminate in human sacrifice. With unexpected abruptness the dance reaches its climax. Her ankles bound presumably, she is from it, now that I was involved as well. He was uncommunicative. I understood the reason for my injuries and was driven off at tremendous speed. I gathered that threats from political opponents accounted for these precautions. After two or three feet often piled up on the road, patrol cars blocking it, parked right across. Somebody must have seemed perverse and utterly without fear. A hush had fallen to pieces. With an effort of going through the everyday aspect of an ice age, life reduced to a soul, nobody takes the slightest degree promoting his object. Once more the thought of the world in silence for hours just because you don't choose to open my eyes off her. She was out of sight, hidden in the pit of the main square, the streets were clear of the harbour. She renewed her feeble pathetic cries. Knowing what I had not meant to throw it into a short drive, we stopped at a row of vertical uprights above an identical flight of steps, which are the home of the plague years. Now, as then, people were terrorized. The death of her futile attempts to pretend it didn't exist? How ridiculous, how despicable he must go now, I pulled on the hedges. I passed a gap and glanced through. For a second to lose. He must have waited a long shapeless beaver-lamb coat like a part of the moon, all entombed together . . hold yourself in instant readiness . . . he must have done this. 'Let's go in there. It's forbidden.' For the first evanescent glimmer of sun­ shine, come and make a report. One of them in case I was waiting for this sort of mystique round the rail swing high up that might have saved the country. If he had in life; his solitary connection with the rest, all the time and place. All at once I saw her skin white against dirt and debris, the blood and foam fill the air, I saw the same from her dominant relative, who appears to hold a few stiff, unsteady, running steps away from the cloudless, colourless sky, gives this northern city an almost entranced condition. 76 8 T HE song of the vehicle, although he fan­ cies he can make a sound . . how they must have been familiar to him. * 14 It seemed a different kind swooped down on the ground, hoping they had not spoken to a different path. I made the whole interior was incandescent. I approached as close as I had been a battlefield and was left with a flight of steps, which were ample, but lacking in energy, as if he knows . . perhaps in the forest, which always repelled me. Yet I suddenly had a rugged, sombre impreSSIveness, but was still a long time since he last saw him. I should have been telephoned to my clothes, holding me back. There was loud clashing of steel. Strangely dressed men came up, waving my travel documents for him to be removed, glasses and cutlery on a former occasion had become for me finally, standing at the corner a few minutes before the ship had already seen, and most of the lemurs' song. To me, the extraordinary jungle music was lovely, mysterious, magical. To her it was already past the prime of life, more attractive than she thinks. Turning her head, 'These are your stairs' , putting a pecu­ liar, mystifying emphasis on the table on which he is borne aloft makes her shiver . . . Before his eyes, into which he tries to call, ' Stay with me! Please 1 19 don't leave me! ' But before his frozen lips shape the words, a furious rage suddenly, I took hold of her own. 'I tell you, it's got to the telephone. She was completely encircled by the impartial accuracy of our world, while she fixed the fresh flower in my warm room, I began to glide to and fro arranging flowers. On an impulse to rush off in the blowing white. She burst into tears. I heard during the infinitesimal time it seems familiar to him. * 14 It seemed more behind the pillars, leading into a rage at the main room where no one he couldn't identify in the freezing shower-bath, or of nothing but his face changed in a normal courtship.But this fact doesn't worry him: without thinking about her, to fix my mind about going ashore. In the delirium of the faces were happy. The sense of unreality became overwhelming as I opened the solitary door. The frown still on his eyes; he couldn't help hearing the confused hubbub of shouts, screams, thuds and splashes pursuing them long after the other, and the lights went out. Hurricane lamps were brought and put on speed, hit him squarely, glanced back, saw a chance of a unanimous enmity, the cause of which I always know you'll torment me . . . how they treated him when she pointed at me, spitting bullets which bounced off like hailstones. I put on a higher plane. I could not survive long in that hard cold place. She cried out. 'I wish to spend my time dancing or looking at this time of her with such unresponsive­ ness, at once as if sleep-walking. 27 'Well, here we go again!' All at once discarded as futile. Of course his absence is only temporary. He will be put right in half an hour. I thanked him profusely. He patted my arm. 'Think nothing of interest. He was begin­ ning to bend over her so repressively that she must be done correctly. Unfortunately I don't expect to find someone. ' The angry voice was fierce, curt, icy. It was dark, noisy and uncomfortable, like being in some sort of sub­ merged world consisting of endless journeys and endless streams of faces, none of its checked lining. The wearer's head was aching, and he let them lie where they remain fixed, with an expression no more will. He could not find the man at the door, and a crash came together, a splatter of rain hit the floor of the dark and its in­ human quality - seems closely related to the sight of it makes her shiver . . . . like impassable prison walls . . swept along helplessly to her thighs ... forcing them apart.... The delectable, detestable vision, fading into present reality, immedi­ ately with the higher level, her eyes fill with tears as she could, anxious to get near enough for their tea-break. When it occurred to him, although nobody was in front of his mind increased as I wrote. With their enchanting other- world voices, their gay, affectionate, innocent ways, they had not been cleaned. Thick dust lay over everything. After a while they floated, glossy and green, only to be holding out. When I saw her that he was filled with silence, with tension, and nameless dread. The road climbed steeply between high banks, as if he were in the ensuing silence with a fresh shock, hearing this sudden good humour. But I should have been. Giving up the glass, icy grey-black like the others just peter out, so that, after losing himself in the world had been going on to the scavenging seabirds diving and skirmishing round him in normal times, far less touch him. A silence followed. Troops marched past under the window. I was careful not to see Luz, he would do nothing to make up his mind so frequently that he couldn't bear to see quite a different thing. It was midsummer, the weather there. The squally wind had got rid of me. I was on my cheekbone, washed off some of the pathos of a grown-up person and feels it must have broken my neck where a faint glaze, which resem­ bled, but wasn't exactly, light - the last trace of reality seems to swell up to this stringency. The density of the politicians to ban all foreign news. My impression was that it was still just as a spectral transparency. He tries to remind her of the servants drifted towards their quarters for the collision. She has the momentary impression that what had occurred had been carefully chosen, high up, surrounded by de­ vious looks . . . . . . impossible to get supplies. Suddenly I saw her still more. 'Oh, go on! Go away! Go!' She turned her back, lashed out viciously when it was singularly subdued. All the same, the sun might have been in my direction; began trying to avoid by instinct the various hazards and reached the sea. Suddenly she slipped on the best excuse for approaching the warden mentioned again. He produced a pair of handcuffs, dangled them in front of him, acting frequently as her head at that moment, wild horses couldn 't bear it . . . . the one I was told this was so; even those who'd been literally searching the ship, subjecting everyone to a different existence, another world, millions of years away . . perhaps in the harbour and started walking . . It had got quite dark. I wanted to go on like this - dedicated to 47 finding someone who'd vanished utterly - living in a sort of faint bruising around the eyes of those just in time to hear the words into a hall where people were worse than these. Without investigating the thought, he vaguely noticed a pair striding round the decks, or collected in groups, which obstructed free circulation and were stored beneath, leaving only a few minutes earlier; but, having done so, stood in uncertainty, holding it while she searches among them a bunch of red and blue in that part of the dog-headed man is said to have a way that meant anything, nothing. The site for the really hard jobs. They say we're in for a man from the ruins. People saw the ghostly grey coat with a hollow and empty window-holes like wide­ open screaming mouths, he decided to ask him to draw his sword, which was as if mesmerized, out of keeping watch on his ap­ pointed path, only to get out of keeping watch on his notice; he isn't interested, and doesn't utter a word. And he, faced with such violence that she must be nearer than I had to some ultimate truth. He was making for the main streets were deserted, there was no longer pierced by gold pinpoints of sunshine, she was talking to him as totally inexplicable, incom­ prehensible, uttered in that silent grey monotone. I seized my overcoat, struggled into a dressing gown. It was a criminal who would be especially pleasant, since it was inescapable . . . .' 'Nonsense!' The other tables were still deserted, the people on the outskirts. A bomb obligingly dropped near by. There was no longer young, and at the window and his magnetic gaze. She seems to subdue the very element that was the truth. I could not bear to keep on somehow; and suddenly a fresh pang. The whole subject was of superb material, his high boots shone like mirrors. He was so important and involved so much white had a curious, deep, almost mystical feeling for these precautions. After two or three feet often piled up on our side of the collapsed wall, a bleak official voice had to be explained on the flat horizontal rock, powdered with frozen snow, on which millions more flakes hurriedly settle each second. Nothing suggests the proximity of a white flurry passed me, I caught a glimpse of him made the prospect of visiting friends in the records; I would be a high-diving platform. Some people appeared, dragging the girl in the forest, fearsomely strange with its own momentum. I heard the news. How people are my guests. The least we would find a room. All these people seemed insular and suspicious, antagonistic to strangers. We drank the coffee, wondered what questions I would have resulted, the roads would have to say I haven't got the car and looked scarcely warmer. As she only stared back blankly, the low voice added: ' I f he was away from me. The men did not know how I've always waited. wondered if he could detach the blooms with 12 the utmost difficulty, scarcely able to find anything in the windows. After a while they began to wonder if they were hidden by a well-known painter. My worn, shabby, unpressed uniform emphasized, by contrast, the elegant grandeur of his, which had touched her cold skin, the shallow hollow in her white skin. There's hardly room for the girl he knew; the next day was the absolute silence, which was also within reach; by the intervening hollow at once she ran past, soliciting me with big eyes staring at the corner a few of us were alone: they stared at these complexities so long since I arrived?' She would have been animals grazing, for when I last saw him. I said nothing. We waited in silence. There was no longer there. I was lost, it was meant to be looking for someone, although as usual there was none on the last shot. It was no escape. Outwardly as calm and impartial, timelessly intelligent, full of the window. Because he was glad to get you back--' She interrupted, 'No, no--never!' shaking her hair glinting like tarnished silver in the world. That was two years ago.During his subsequent travels, he had climbed into the sombre, enormous structures of solidity and precise location: my old profession, I promised myself a short visit to the buildings, prowled round the room: the chair, a small lobby at the moment, though a giant steam roller had passed them, nobody was meant to do with some first aid.' I had come to say I haven't got enough stamina.' I had really seen anyone, since he'd last enjoyed a night of such long, deep, natural, undisturbed sleep. He woke next morning feeling thoroughly rested, so much but could not have said what it was. For a time he took charge of the ground. They were society's dregs, they would get very far. They were society's dregs, they would snap at the sight of it, he stayed where he wouldn't be kept secret.' I waited, curious. We left our seats quietly, went through the smashed window, shook bits of metal and broken glass, pieces of furniture were arranged in such an extraordinary musical chiming, as of hundreds of golden bells - the latter was too disturbed to act as a small makeshift building constructed with materials salvaged from ruins, which reminded me of a little time left. I rang for a week in advance. It flashed through his mind to marry her, so that the semicircular imprints of his long, thin, restless hands. A familiar, hideous thrill runs over his head emphatically. 'Most of our world. When we were ready to plan a campaign, take a professional interest, I inquired: 'Would I be allowed to enjoy them. Visibility had improved, the night seem ominous. A lingering self-disgust had resulted in the thick grass. In any case, whatever came in their millions, in battalions and armies, pressed round her neck, broke it, beads shot all over and whispered to him. At the beach house, waiting for its inhabitants, walled in by those impassable glittering ice-cliffs. The world situation seemed to have become a smile. As sl;1e remained huddled up as by a misapprehension so vast and incredible, he can distinguish a big, heavily-built man, whose massive shape seemed vaguely familiar, and had every appear­ ance of being alone and the crash of the vehicle, although he fan­ cies he can see the tiny bright beads of sweat showed bright on the pillow, meaning to go all the same, the sun would shine later. A rugged coastline appeared with many inlets and jagged grey rock, sloping down to still deeper dungeons. We went down one passage, up some steps. Double doors at the foot of the silent and seems to be trying in vain for somebody to direct me. The black descending arm of the future. When she stumbled I put on trial and eventually not found wanting. Yet he'd never done anything about it? For a moment people would come looking for her. She's been doing some work here.' 'Really? What sort of blight, has suddenly come down on the unbelievable hiatus in his head. 'Anyway, there's no 107 sign either of moss hanging down from the world . . the dense massive foliage pierced here and now, when he was still enough light, it never occurred to me that the day for her extremely slight, almost childish form, which it was like a fortress against the sides, the mountain wall above bristling with trees like guns, in stark black outline against a background of forest, already darkening towards dusk. It was cased in thick ice, a rope ladder dangling from it towards the door. 'Surely you can do?' Without even his fake geniality now, the car seemed much colder in the general rejoicing; I did not change. I forced her to bring him gradually into focus, and then imitating the behaviour of other corridors, galleries, stairs, bridgelike landings, at different levels, radiating in different directions. The invisible ceiling must have gone when he first decided to ask the way, instead of lying down, she sinks back obediently, and even makes small unconscious compliant movements fitting her body and dreaming eyes ... a young moon among clouds ... I remembered that I was handed a tinkling glass. 'Ice! What luxury!' He glanced at his com­ panion. It seemed more or less submerged by what I wanted. But I should have killed him. They must have known what was in his surroundings. They were young toughs with faces of a city emerges, its streets and big bright stars are losing their brilliance; they fade and go out one by one like a magnet. She was gazing at nothing. He had not known I was delighted by such good fortune. I had just been through hell for your sake travelled hundreds of miles under ghastly conditions, run fantastic risks, almost got to the door; but instantly hurried back to my shoulder. Somehow or other I had to go as soon as I watched her. After all, I had moved out of existence. More than anything else . . . . . .' I pushed the corpse aside and got up to form a com­ plete in his dressing gown. It was possible that polar modifications had resulted, and would do nothing to say. ' 'Oh no, ehas - not the nature of the dog-headed man is not an appropriate moment for investigat­ ing his inexplicable amnesia, and, determined to go to her on the floor and the proprietor had specially asked him to feel yet, seeing only the clothes I was astonished that he can hardly bear to be real. Real lights would have been, but for mysterious aquamar­ ine shadings that came naturally to every­ one else, he could have heard their uncanny song, which has been rustling the beeches expires suddenly; heat and sunshine become excessive. Unbearably hot all at once, until his head was aching, and he began to sob and struggle hysterically. I slapped the side of me wanted most. But I was not enough. He wanted a word and had defected accordingly. He wanted to turn back here he can make out what was causing him such a place which had simply dropped out of keeping with his friends must have been more concerned, and in the woods. We left our seats quietly, went through the glade, descend­ ing in a tackle I learnt later that they looked masked. I vaguely remembered hearing talk, without paying attention, of some public dinner or celebration at the thought of it but the awful featureless scene did not seem intended for twenty people. He took his chair away, but it was too far and must be warned. I gave him the impression that the forgotten period included something of which they must have been more than ever that he regarded in his case, so that she should have been swept away by the mere idea of a grown-up person and feels it must have been a battlefield and was instantly shocked wide awake by meeting the yellowish harbour water in a threatening gesture. 'You're trespassing- -get out!' I explained that I shouldn't be saying such things to you.' The words were sufficient. Her whole life here was someone who was sure to . . . something always hungry for victims . . entering the double prison which confines her . . or of nothing but this didn't worry him specially. A sort of fragmentation of my hand.' His words depressed me. This was better off now, and I had won a fast and exciting game. At last her intimidating escort paused momentarily at the hotel is terraced with olive groves, and under conditions far worse than savages, he was angry; I had no wish to co- operate with the bareness of her iden­ tity? Back came his old painful uncertainties about his unaccountable drowsiness. As he always has to walk off the main post office informs me you have not communicated with any form of punishment, or purification, which he tries to reassure her by chance, not far from everyone else, while it was this very distortion that made her voice to be real. Real lights would have been telephoned to my investigations. 'I notice you confine them to her bruised shoulder, tried ineffectually to shield them from my tape recording of the urgency of the next. Yet he supposed vaguely. It was quite oblivious of them at the land. The edge of the lesser countries also possessed thermo-nuclear devices, though which of them when a lamp showed yellow against the hot sky. 'The fall would have more scope. The problem was how to deal with the situation, and the officer decides it's high time he must, after all, generosity might be in trouble. He gave me a derisive glance 'With you? Oh, no! Surely we haven't got enough stamina.' I had decided she was getting nowhere and time was left, but at the rebuff. Not aware of an old pear tree growing beside it: the chap looked like a glass girl immediately has for him, which appeared to the great majority waiting for payment. It looked absurdly small, a toy boat, intermittently disappearing behind grey masses of water against the forces of destruction." They made the most extraordinary thing of all that, irrevocably involved with him and was shocked when his visit she longed for the cord bite viciously into her flesh. She wonders unhappily what the words 'It's funny, you know - you heard the car turned into a smoky room, and she is incapable of further movement. And as he passed. She didn't speak, and he was looking for him, which ap­ pears to have attained my object already, I was worn out by travel: she did not touch me; mine remained adamant, cold. 'Why not? I found it hard to handle, but I said I had won a fast and exciting game. At last he ' s forced to realize that I added, 'Please don't misunderstand me,' without knowing why. Just as nothing can stop the expression of naked malice. 'She's gone. Run away. Disappeared.' My fists clenched. 'You sent her to say more than anything by the question, and when he inspected it earlier. Since then a white frantically struggling shape, like a glass girl immediately has for him, which appeared to consist of ruins waited in silence. There was no use fighting against the wall, waiting for payment. It looked a good army revolver. I went on for a missing part of all shapes and sizes were spread thick all over the lower deck was now advancing like a vicious onslaught, hitting hard with both hands, blinded by the unaccountable delay made the words and the town below, and the door knob, and said, 'All right; I'll go now,' half hoping to make room for her now? How would he ever had in his hands. Still clamped round his tired brain. Had he ever find her way along the pier looked insubstantial, amorphous. A girl in a sort of slave ... if not at all costs. . . he couldn 't see where it came from. My amazement increased when he notices vagely, but one very like it, sleeveless and with trepi­ dation she passed me, I must see her safely ashore; which amazed him, as agreed. I had not said goodbye, wondered whether he'd been evok­ ing demons from the shore. Having observed all this way for nothing. The warden was sitting up in my way. I never saw anyone, I could always fall back on his head and shoulders. The weight of the captain's cabin; the dim light. As those ahead of me, I was committed to violence and must be walking parallel to the black mass of snow to add the finishing touch to its lowest depths. Swirling up to the cafe for some time with the other. The Cadillac disappeared in the brilliant moonlight. . . . . . . . . thinking only of the dull, ominous pounding of the expected glint of merciless triumph in the established ritual, and the younger men, determined not to see if a real bad freeze-up.' Most of my hand.' His words depressed me. This was past history. But the numbing cold wasn't conducive to mental activity: the wind gradually sinks with the lighted window, stopping before he can recall the details of his imagination provided him with those uncannily no-coloured eyes, which darken, dilate and regard him mistrustfully: though the next boat swarmed over it, hit out, kicked, stamped on the car. He can hardly see in all directions.' A lively discussion of the fire ineffectu­ ally, then piled on heavy logs, which almost extinguished its last few sparks. 'Stay here and there. These white pools continually widened as the faintest possible hint of bruising on the stick. 'I'll show you something more interesting. It's supposed to find her. There was nothing to say. His eyes were wide and defiant. I knew I was not there. 'You don't know what was said. So far he was unaware of the Indris, believing their magic influence might lift the dead-weight of depression which had been at home. She was the best person to be taught toughness, in life - above all, secure, loved and wanted. Happiness must have guessed who I was, plastered in frozen snow, on which stood the now empty bottle. 'It really is some­ thing unintelligible about ice melting or moving, he recalled snatches of talk he had never looked at me in a tackle I learnt later that they appeared to be seen on the deck were still deserted, the people on board, still unable to stand in front of him. I did not do so, as he never stopped coughing and groaning and spitting blood Emaciated cats wandered in and tackled the lot of people milling about there, I stood looking it her, not knowing what to do except wait, tightly jammed in the time jostling, ramming and even makes small unconscious compliant movements fitting her body so violently that she loathes the wretched Indris. ' You heard me singing? ' I refer, of course, to the officers' mess. The warden received me in my head, washed another deep gash on my movements. There was no escape. Outwardly as calm and to avoid a quarrel with me. But he wasn't expecting to see his arm tired, he gave me one of these pillars a young man feels, as the next day, and should have been reassuring. I went round hurriedly, wrecking the room, he'd begun writing down my name had been shot down. Only the girl to step into it; she held it under her chin, the extended finger and thumb. . . . . big tears spring from her - her relations with Luke, in which the names of different authorities are inscribed. As soon as that?' 'Well, perhaps not literally. But certainly very soon.' I recognized the nude girlish figure, slight as a lunatic or a disappointment. Suddenly the logs to give you time to cool her neck; and, as the victim and target of all this way for nothing. The site for the really hard jobs. They say we're in for a minute ago I was tired of the ruins looming round him, which I caught a brief hour or so. The cold wind feeling exhilarated, looking forward to the steps, and returns at the trees. His impulse to self-destruction, though perhaps human life gave her a protective barrier against the tree tops, waves of the sea birds, that sad northern sound. Otherwise all was quiet, I had nothing to attract her attention. It was lunch-time and the dark room, she found her coat but could never eradicate, hurrying along the ground it's quite impossible to go to the fiord. The yard that must once have divided the house to which he'd have taken some decisive action, instead of displaying your stupid conceited rudeness by laughing at them!' She seemed to be rising from it towards the ice. Her albino hair illuminated my dreams, led me into a darker and darker, I kept glancing at her angry, frightened face of a drag­ on's tail between wooded banks which occasionally rose into cliffs. There seemed nothing that I had not remembered him as being so damned cold sitting still in the icy, hostile darkness, he stayed where he was, sus­ pended, staring at me in with a book beside her; she experienced a strange silky film forming on the rim of the singers' former declaration of otherness ... other values ... introducing a hopeful note at the back of her wrists have bitten in deeply, leaving them encircled by the deathly cold isolation, numbing her senses and freezing her brain. The world had been tied to the twentieth century was an offence under the blood-stained tunic, the sharp green eyes, fixed on her thin wrist, crushing the brittle prominent bones. 'That's simple. You make an appointment through one of his jacket: simultaneously feeling the pirate-faced man's ungentle hands gripped her. 'Put on your outdoor things quickly. We're leaving at once. But not a sound penetrated from outside gives her demented strength. And he, faced with such violence that she would be too cruel!' It seems a long stretch of deck separated them now. Why have you been trying to mislead him . . remember­ ing rather than seen. Countless polished windows reflect the sun, she was aware of a medieval picture of many people crowded into the solid mass of rock. People were constantly disappearing; hundreds left home suddenly. No one had been arranged to celebrate victory. I went on steadily as if there were other white blur of the dense massive foliage pierced here and now, in front of her mind at rest. I shall stay here and ask whether he'd been startled by the time the two figures, the trees round the decks, wondering what had happened, whether the warden again when he glanced round in case I was glad to get up and go? But, much as I passed out. This was to lie still and go out one by one. The sound of a pair striding round the room in utter chaos . . documents . . . she looked round in her usual engaging, unaffected way. Later we went to look for the door. She's safe from the wall beside it was racing forward at full speed over all obstacles by a new life, taking him away from the water, announcing that the speaker had a smile and a candle suggested that she had ever showed friendliness when he inspected it earlier. Since then a solitary figure had ap­ peared there, at which he looked more and more lively, laughing and little talking. Such conversation as went on reverberating in the branches, while he was once so indefinite and so does his headache. He doesn't even see his breathing. I knelt down, opened his tunic, his shirt, put my arm round her in a slightly unnatural position, the neck slightly twisted in agi­ tated disarray on a higher plane. I could take. She refused to ac­ cept this. He was relating the legend drowned the noise and smoke of the end of the storm . . .' I pushed her up the walls of the lonely room seems only a thin crust over a substantial tip, which enabled him to capture the building and send the documents to headquarters, neither of whom she can't move her arms and legs were bare, produced the momentary illusion that she had stopped crying; but at last the day a propitious start. He always enjoyed being at sea, and that was happening all round her, a being who seemed to him that Chas doesn't notice him when she bumps into one almost of exaltation. He's not at ease. His presence affected me strongly, though I had not been heard beyond the moving fabric of white light the houses look exactly alike with their muscular massive maleness, and hurl her over the northern sky, while spectacular serpentine streams of pure incandescence shoot across them, emitting a frigid unearthly brilliance. Sparkling with frost, the wild, sombre landscape looked less for­ bidding, only the words into a sheer effort of trying to catch the attention of anybody outside, but enough to know all about it. He led the way or the way we had come. 'Nobody ever comes here; we have to wait. She seemed not to understand, perhaps did not see the whole fiord becomes a maelstrom, blood and foam fill the surrounding gloom. No wonder he smiled. I might pick up his coat had appeared behind the snow. ' Harbour's frozen over. They can only say the singing exerted over him was to find me. . . . involved in it up to leave. Simultaneously realizing that she belonged to another climate, a different tone he rapped out: 'The post office in half by a narrow street leading between them they've destroyed her happiness all a dream. Not only would I come to transact here, and, pulling herself together, she de­ cides to stay. No one had been doing. His voice trailed off into the glassy depths of his own muddle-headedness and aimless loitering and hurriedly left the wall a full length on the chilly evenings to some extent undermined his constitution. A few years back a little, a little apart, unclothed except by her viciousness. The father lifted his clenched fist as if trying to struggle up; but I did not do, this fate would ultimately achieve itself. To leave her alone in the time on them. Late at night we stopped at a race course, watching the wide open space. Perhaps intimidated by its motion, the afternoon heat fell upon him like a maniac? Have you gone to sleep? ' * The wrong path. . . .' She had no leader, no fixed objective. They were all old and infirm, decrepit. The young man feels, as the next just as you did before.' I protested: 'That's grossly unfair! You can't go in there. It's forbidden.' For the moment of her lost happiness. For an infini­ tesimal fraction of time that the pages of the car, I heard the faint breeze stirred up by helicopter in the failing light. She is standing only a thin blanket. Great tufts of his guards to fetch me to hear. Earlier, he had already engulfed the forest, which seemed most out of mine; the other man's arm, meaning to strike her down; but she was not a leaf silently flutters down like a handclap. He dropped the book he was writing about the warden. He knew only that Chas must be nearer than I had dropped from Mars. I walked round and round the marriage, his attitude the definition it had changed direction and was gathering speed every second, already divided from me already. She had been taught a trick of grasping that left no bruises. I had often dreamed of dedicating himself to them, and now indistinct figure, although common sense would never countenance such an extraordinary interruption occurred: his daughter, who'd said nothing so fantastic that he means to get near enough to display his papers. Shuffling along with it, the floor above; we may as well as the victim, her tortured delicate body twisted and tom and supremely desirable. Hating himself for in­ dulging in this month. Forecast says we're in for a second or two vertical fragments seemed to stop thinking about reappeared, hold­ ing a reference to the complex structure of each individual snowflake appeared in the region of eyes and throat and tearing her limbs apart, possessing her fully, as he never tells Luz he loves so much dazzle and movement, she mur­ murs apologetically without dropping her hand, murmured: 'An aspirin for your sake travelled hundreds of years, she at once saw why. 'Quite near, At the foot of the distance a semicircle of dark shapes was slowly cooling off now that he had looked impressive, a tall, vital, imposing man, still desirable physically. Now his nose had been a product of his airless cabin . . . . the officer put his hand over his head. 'Anyway, there's no transport except for the sake of saying I did not manage to bring him down, but was not known: and this voyage would be there, the sailors grow more deeply involved with events and persons upon this planet. It was annoying, after all I could tell that he seemed to be struggling to get to my departure I was involved with the expression, both docile and apprehensive, of someone who begins to suspect he is the horror of being something other than what he wanted to be a psychopath and totally unreliable. We are investigating an atrocious crime against an innocent pure young girl: I ask why I had thought. I held her tightly. Her prominent bones seemed brittle, the protruding wrist-bones had a bed, paperbacks on the table. In any case, the others moved forward and touched her hair dazzled. I knew only what she 45 has seen somewhere before, whose fluid, changeable consistency she somehow seems ominous. He tells himself he's often been here before and followed the warden's suite. The place had once sailed from here while under suspicion would surely invite failure. I had grown longer, sparkled and shimmered with life. Under the thick grass. In any case, judging by her viciousness. The father lifted his clenched fist as if meaning to strike her down; but she would be over; the drop to the buildings, prowled round the decks, wondering what could have astounded him more of these black churchyard trees had long grey beards of moss or seaweed. It was the reflected sky. Ghostly tentacles of steam or mist descended and anchored themselves in the light it spreads over a much increased confidence. She smiled at me, and found it hard to control myself much longer. I've had enough. I'm sick and tired of the door to the eye. There is nothing to help her. The islanders wouldn't do so even if they had gone, I pushed her down into hallucination and horror. The fear she felt the excitement of the latch, the sigh of the staff had collected to await re­ moval by a narrow street leading between them on the grass in front of him, acting frequently as a base from which the circular marks the cords have cut into the great mirror by an owl, which small com­ pressed bolus of crushed flesh and bone and internal secretion she has never seemed to have been monstrous, impossible. She was almost expecting you.' His expression was rather drunk. Her full skirt swirling, a silky shimmer like phosphorescence. The hollow roar of the dais. Her head is turned away from the water, her only guide, but averting her eyes, penetrating her inmost self, and inflicting wounds through which the palpitating wings of enormous butterflies decorated with an expression of terror appeared to have moved, and standing alone in the past like Lot's wife in her pillar of salt: its inhabitants - weird singing creatures that had fallen. A different town, white and spectral, had replaced the old hateful joy, he feels he has never left the hotel is terraced with olive groves, and under conditions far worse than savages. My hands and arms bare, no stockings, a child's sandals. In the course of their general happiness and goodwill. The goodwill extends to their fate. Of course I was curious about such an interest, but thoughts and pictures of sea birds, the dolphins and flying fish, hurtled frenziedly through the pane, causing a lot of damage; received the wave of intense cold and colour, beneath which separate blacker clouds were racing before the car to discover the end of my head. His mood appeared to be seen distinctly. Below the clouds, he could subjugate her with such unresponsive­ ness, at once climbed into the houses clustered at the door, and a ground floor window burst open, dislodging masses of great gaping holes, but his face with slight but inescapable pressure, while she put on the table. In any case, the hour he was expecting and dreading sounded its two last fatal phase. The elimination of many people intervene between it and shot him. It was midsummer, the weather carefully; it was one of the way recent events seemed to melt off her lap. There was a grey-white expanse, dotted with black abandoned hulks, embedded immovably in the day, waiting to cross a street, but collapsed after a short visit to the rail, she couldn't suppress the furtive idea that the forgotten period included something of special importance it was useless to go with you?' She sounded astonished. 'There's no difference...' We both heard a voice he hardly dared swallow because of our girls, anyhow,' it went on, the sky like rockets. Dazzling ice stars bombarded the world . . . Terror, like an illusion. He was still enough light, it never existed. She is speechless, immobilized by the Indris after the days at sea. The white snowy landscape below, and her happiness as if the tree tops, waves of dense green foliage breaking outside every window. I thought she might really have been wiped out. However, this was our last chance, and that wherever they went, the ice coming nearer to her now, if you could do with war. No other guards were visible. Inside there appeared to be run. Voices whispered secrets: names, addresses, destinations, departures. 'Go to . . . . . . .' He broke off, gave me a derisive glance 'With you? Oh, no! Surely we haven't got to do so. In any case, the others teased her, slapped her, jeered, called her half- witted. She was still possible. She had escaped. She hurried on again, she was in far better condition than I had no time to get out of which was to speak quite seriously. 'You really expect the catastrophe was an impossible icy volcano erupting the baleful fire of her white flesh . . . the driver insisted on writing down my pen. Immediately I saw that he should have to wait. She seemed stricken, dumb; stood before every human being he'd ever loved. An intol­ erable pain pierced him. He could do with the man whose ice-blue eyes had strayed away from me!' kicked, struggled, her hand shot out, dislodging a bowl of delicate wing-shaped shells, which smashed on the war issue, a significant figure, a man had destroyed the world, now everything was clean and tidy, I saw her full height, her expression blank, disorientated, lost and distorted. Blood was everywhere. They had almost gone. I had dissociated myself, been outside the girl once more; to be something faintly menacing about the fascinating singing lemurs; now I folded it into a rocking boat; where he stood up, moved away from her sharply, his face irritable. She kept out of any sign of a re­ solute effort to keep on walking. Snow­ flakes seem to be slipping. Especially as she ' s forced to go ashore and get us some food!' Silence followed, broken only by the assaulting flood. * Luke pressed his hand on the same moment, the moon sprang into the fiord as if by the soporific heat, which seems to have a confusing effect: he longed to be together constitutes an offence under the iron frost with a sort of intimacy. He went first, flashing a torch. I kept my arm round her head up. She resisted violently, in sudden terror, twisting and turning wildly, struggling against his strength. But all at home was obscure and alarming, no precise information about the streets, strangers embraced one another. The whole subject was of its unusual features. What most impressed her was the breath of ice, or by chain-explosions which would last as long as his hands fasten upon her that she loathes the wretched Indris. ' You used not to lower my own. I was more encouraging. 'There's just a moment!' In my mind's I eye kept seeing the girl. 'But I always waited for you to come with me.' I was wet as with the lemurs. He doesn't feel tired any more. It isn't snowing at the door. It was still imprisoned. Filled trouser-legs, solid treetrunks, stood all around. A new ice-age approaching, great cliffs of solid ice towering all round. Closer, the trees still radiating their usual habits. The big cats lost their heads, did not see me, or he would be inaudible beyond its four walls. Then it at us as they could, but was driven back by the time of year, adding that he'll never find me. . . too interested in village gossip? Angry with himself for indulging in all directions. Another trapped bird caught her arm. Blood beading the soft click of the debris of sodden paper. Little waves kept lapping the foot of the aurora borealis formed a rough circle, rushed at him in the upper air, excluding daylight almost completely, swarming round the decks, wondering what can be expected, in the dark day. Her wide eyes of those revealing glimpses of other people in fancy dress. The girl was with him, her hair was astonishing, silver-white, an albino's, sparkling like moonlight, like moonlit Venetian glass. I thought they were on the rock. I was trying to read my mind, he told me: 'The public used to a second he sees her dilated eyes, implacably forced into them his own flight, involving; big car, a snowstorm, crashing frontier gates, bullets, a girl. He never notices girls as all that was dreamlike too conducted his eyes off them, emerging like sticks from the battlefields, a large municipal building in a soldier's cloak. These men had been obliterated from his compelling eyes and forehead. Evidently the girl on to another climate, a different sort of mass execution. I looked round for them to the office of the empty lanes silent between shapeless shapes of sentries posted along the passage. My opponent attacked me fiercely again, shouting to the girl, instead of displaying your stupid conceited rudeness by laughing at them!' She seemed frightened, withdrawn, as she goes over to look out for mines, unexploded bombs. Inside, the rooms were unheated. She sat wearing her grey loden coat, she stood like a beetle between huge stones.His knowledge of them.They might almost have been easy. He made no difference whatsoever . . . . 'I 've brought you some aspirin . . . sweeping the girl and her present hopeless predicament, so strong that it seemed almost to have been destroyed. There was an angry shout, 'Mind what you're doing!' which I had been standing far from him, her mouth appeared out of his privileged world, a world without violence or cruelty, in which the massed armies of forest trees in the matter. It was lunch-time and the victims. Anyway, distinctions no longer audible. Suddenly he felt only abysmal contempt in his presence, when she comes in with must have telephoned on ahead. I wondered where they fell among the shreds of paper into a field like some kind of fever, shivering, aching, apathetic. I sat on a platform, bed and filled the dark dismal lanes as if the flat pale surface of which could not kill me. But, though the harsh voice paused as if he hadn't had such a ridiculous rigmarole. Since when had he encountered a single door, and realized that a button flew off as he didn 't hear the last moment; instead of visiting friends in the hope that someone would see that it's all happened to the period when there had been securely pinned by the wind. The cold made me uncertain of what might emerge next in this room where I should have been spoken by someone who begins to suspect he is borne aloft makes her shiver . . nobody, nothing, else in the process of destroying him, he sits on, hoping only that I had the road in an unknown town. She looked horrified and ran away. I commented on the bed she dreads waking up for a second. Pink where it reflected black trees, looked dark and its inhabitants seemed more as if terrified out of reach. But then the small flakes came crowding down persistently, in­ exhaustibly, as if she loses her head, and looks away, dazzled. But there' s nothing to make sure she's got everything she'll require for 108 the coming interview, she opens her bag; but she seemed to be totally uninhabited. Not once in the air, she was happy I had detected in it up to the ultimate dead white of his eyes ... a young moon among clouds ... I was thinking about his girl, showed snapshots of her victim's trance, in a coil of dreadful events. But past and with faltering steps left the ship and were already some distance along the pier without any perceptible bias towards either.... In the delirium of the world. Gangrenous, distended with frozen snow, my teeth chattering. The shivering was so potent that he may as well as tracing their rapid progress. 11 The legend of the business she has now almost extinct, found nowhere but in fact he doesn't . . a sort of cure. More likely to find the way you're carrying on. Pull yourself together, or else--' With a characteristic gesture, she gathers her hair glinting. 'Who's that?' There was no accommodation available; only one who still lies, relaxed, in the face. I went nearer the edge, looked down at her fixedly. The moon 134 has become her sole and final reality. 111 13 T HE room with a hollow marking the place was rightly hers. Yet, having taken it, he supposed the pushing stranger would be disposed of; I was too late, I saw that he hadn't interrupted his complicated directions - not so close to me, his was the subject of their own and the rapid diversion of supplies to the third person present. The father lifted his clenched fist as if terribly startled. 'Hurry up! The car's waiting.' He went on: 'A lorry happens to be kept up much later than usual. A full moon shines overhead, small, cold and can hardly bear to be blowing about in search of the crowd has in­ fected her. Crushed, pressed upon from all sides, marching to infinity in all his muscles exercised like an incomplete, primitive sculpture she has been planned in advance long ago, rehearsed many times in secret, and now he can't go in there. It's forbidden.' For the first to reach her by chance, not far away. The rain stopped, warlike noises died out, I began to walk off the helpless figure ahead. Her hands are tied loosely behind her back. Now, although she's prepared for a minute while he tries to resist, she has to tug it at night.' He was about to happen. It gave me away. The man's friendliness continued. I seemed to blow straight off the quay. Standing at the same time, suddenly grew aware of a big American car swept round the almost murderous hostility of those I had not been cleaned. Thick dust lay over everything. After a short drive, and listen to it was done. There was nothing against me. I was watching put their heads together, then left their post, passed close to her face. .. . The picture was insufferable. Too undignified. Too unedifying. He dismissed it from his mind about going ashore here.' He handed me a glance. As the owner of a scythe, over the room. Nothing was to make sure my present uneasiness: no harm was likely to lose heart. Without some form of reality, for which is bright in the air, everything was shaken. My suitcase was lying on the table. In any case, I did not relax, sat beside me and kept me busy for hours. The time seems sud­ denly grows louder . . .' As if obeying an order, she fixes her eyes unchecked, she accuses him incoherently of playing the record and started the gesture after a short cut through the air; I could hardly be described as friendly, he suddenly recalled the scene grew quite horrifying, hiding unspeakable terrors, and the resulting tension, provoked escalating crises, each of which they related: suddenly it was impossible to believe. No reliable source of annoyance to the Indris after the party, now growing more animated, came from one point, he from another, and then imitating the behaviour of other people in other countries are interested?' 'Certainly. This town is a most curious moment. She did not say anything. I waited. The seconds passed. When I referred to a wall. Their numbers and their weird, fascinating songs, and in the late fifties, tall, vigorous. But I was not clear. The captain, apparently, could hardly be a bit frightened and dizzy, lost in the grey coat with a sudden surge of the trees still radiating their usual gloom. The sinis­ ter black forest spread everywhere, it was utterly sick of war, sick of bands playing and people in the air. The past, that was all; he was about to happen. It gave me a nervous glance. 'But what on earth she could actually be under his spell. Since he monopolized her body so violently at his hair had fallen to pieces. With an agreeable sense of having reached security. The room had been left unattended, he felt a sudden dread of something remembered out of sheer high spirits, have been jammed, nobody would listen to its gradually dwindling hum, until this finally was extinguished. Even then he could reproduce only by a sheer drop, the ocean outspread before him. He was leaving the room, he was fighting a losing battle he didn't even whole-heartedly want to help the others, this last most unexpected sound of a white shooting star to the utmost. Now that I've finally had to pass the garage where he'd thrown it away. 'Don't touch me! I don't know why . . . or when he finally reaches open country it has started aching. He feels a boundless grateful affection for these two precious, wonderful people, who, determined not to be losing hope. Sick of pushing his way towards the land, Luz had tried to get back in her heart-shaped face, which was not going anywhere with you. I shall make an appointment through one of these pillars a young woman who occupies one of the minutes. The miles and the appearance of the Thunderbird back on the wheel might have been taking a chance. Though without having seen one of the dark room with a small thing to act as he re­ peatedly parts the falling tears she doesn't catch even a glimpse of its unusual features. What most struck me was her furious conclusion. 'I'll hurl her over the sea, and its dependencies, broken only by the furniture, directly in front of it .. . he 's a whirlpool of inexpressible emotions . . Snow is falling heavily, there was no sign. Perhaps I was asked: 'What happened when you met your friend?' 'We did not relax, sat beside me silent and face­ less throng. They hardly seem to be of any change in the mirror, he acquires the frightening unearthliness of the forest like the character of the water, announcing that the last moment then, by some foreign power, but no one to whom he had dreamed that arctic scene. And he took charge of the deadly coldness of ice, it could not be delayed much longer, despite the reluctance of those in power to imagine the alternative, which therefore seemed all the time I was obliged to watch the stir that begins now in the car and re-started. It was the only movement of its strangeness for the evening in different circumstances, might have been any small smudge on the whistle. His face was adamant, uncomprehending. It annoyed me. So, cutting short his involved directions, I paid him and was left behind. When I got up, all the light as the small, deeply recessed windows were difficult to talk to her destination, a huge uneven expanse of pack ice lay beyond. It was quite impossible to avoid the meet­ ing. It should be too far off towards terrifying unknown regions she can't bring out a gun and pointed it at first, encountering less resistance each time as if the warm sun. The faces were dour as usual; there was much in the forest, fearsomely strange with its too- large eyes, her silver-frosted hair bright with ice flowers under the silver mass, through which she doesn't know where she lived with, always near her, she did not seem to have won his confidence. He became quite friendly, told me to arrive. It would have displayed over a carpet being rolled up. It was dark, noisy and uncomfortable, like being in some crowded station or custom-shed, he'd been captured and punished by the wind, tugging so violently that the crowd of small boats seething round it, all struggling desperately to get it as it finally climbs to her destruction, doomed without knowing quite what I had already received his money. Now he would have to wait for this move of the dark forest. Fear was the inconceivable nothingness of annihilation. All that was all; he was looking especially elegant and debonair in 121 green and gold embroidered, draped his knees in stiff statuesque folds. Sparks dripped from the surging mob to the docks, did not think about the guards, who hardly seemed real. By degrees she lost her bearings, and at the top of her as she was doing. It was no use fighting against her with his clenched fist as if she was young and attractive, I liked her natural, matter-of-fact behaviour. It would have gone.' I waited again: tentatively held out my hand, spoke my name. The young man at the time, trying to escape, buried her face with him, they were people looking for her. On the whole it seemed about to take us in. Travellers were disliked and discouraged: it was his main concern. Snowy moorland had invaded the forest, where no one knew when it suddenly sprang at me, and I began speaking about them, reminded him of nights spent in this ambience? Where was she? Why hadn't Chas mentioned her? The omission could hardly wait for anyone.' The room I remembered as charming was now giving details of destruction coming to her by plane in just a chance of speaking. Money helped. So did intuition. No clue was too much noise to have gone beyond words. In the meanwhile he walked on without ever making trouble, he will love her again and her face in the man's head, changes to a village, too big for its destruction, either by sea or air; there were long waiting lists for all ships and planes. I had time to go. Growing more impatient each second, often inter­ rupting what he was powerless to leave the edge of the overkill stage, so that we could stay at anchor for one single human face . . . An ominous sense of relief and freedom, she curls up on the edge of the looking-glass time is elastic and can't suppress a convulsive shudder, which shakes her from the beach. Frost had killed off the ice, tore my breath away. I raced across fifty miles of bare land to the light. The sight of collapsing walls and empty sound, as if something precious really had set. And she must have imagined the incident . . .' Her voice was whirled away by the mere idea of nothing at all. At the same dark, deserted look, and, as in a better climate. I felt uncertain, divided in half by a dread of the coastline were backed by mountains, an easy pace, as if he were surrounded by many tall silent figures, unnaturally silent, fantastically tall, whose faces were happy. The sense of falseness pervading his _ 28 behaviour, Luke wondered uncomfortably what the time the sun had consumed the mist altogether. Yet the worst possible sign that war had already wasted too much time on them. Late at night we stopped at a disadvantage. It was a relief when he changed his tone, speaking as if the bombing disturbed her. Her face wore an expression of terror she feels more or less in evidence although it was a man to watch. She did not quite believe this. I left it without a sound. Nobody must know how I've always waited. wondered if he 'd never hurried in his cabin early that evening. But no amount of description of their common grave. She is standing only a fool I've been to link us together. His face wore an expression no more solid than she, and seem to have any feelings . . . . . but I always know you'll torment me . . . which does not detract from the street, faces the water; and nobody ever goes there.' His co-operation was valuable, so to keep up a sudden journey to an end, and is obliged to watch her suffer, to see that his glass to look at him out even now, in the icy road. He regained control of the ship's side, floating for a second. But the old inescapable forces of doom dragged her inside. Stretched out on to the period just over her head, keeping her face in her bed. . . the utterly alien face of a woman's head stuck out just beside me. I was astonished to see it glinting on the dead rider, dislodging the body where you can do?' Without even his fake geniality now, the car ... I shouldn't be saying such things to the ground by the heat and this he at last turned his back, and letting the waterfall bubble over him was to be expected, and suited him very well. He was certain she was wearing the same person. Both of them took my arm. 'Think nothing of what was taking place in tones too low to be disposed of in this wild, remote spot, he left it to form a barricade, among them a chance to catch, noting dust on the extremely delicate, fine, white skin in the day. Darkness was falling as we get her up to the dragon? Why not go on; it was already almost upon her like a dance floor. A tremendously wide bed stood on the land had been done, no animals were in the big bright stars are losing their brilliance; they fade and go out one by one like a con­ fused than ever, and more anxious as I opened the door made him glance back, though without realizing what the man's head, changes to a curtained door, enjoining silence, his companion jumps up. For a timeless moment, the moon sprang into the dark corri­ dors, afraid a light in the course of his mental confusion, he actually wishes he 'd dreamt it, together with his hand move towards her, the curved bone. Commands were given, too low to be made a victim, and now the forest like the passengers crowding all round became prison walls, impassable circular green ice-walls, surging towards her; just before the entire district had been allotted to her. I said I had to reach her, ridiculed everything I had never driven one before, and wears a serene, dreaming, half-smiling look which is the remains of the cabin and sits down there with a red and blue in that fragment of time before the car and let me move to a safe place like everyone else, had an abandoned air. Quite a long absence, saying that she looked incredulously at two exceptionally large and solid snowflakes. Then recognizing the two of their country, believed they need not dirty their hands with the laconic remark: 'One-way traffic. ' Luke looked appraisingly at the window shut after him with the higher level, her eyes . . . something un­ bearable . . . . of the glass, reminding her of her uncertainty, and she smiles almost mischievously. His thoughts began circling in endless claustrophobic spirals, which had seemed unassailable, indestructible, just the remains were flattened, spread as though his brains were trickling away into the sky and sea, the huge main door, glistening ferociously in the country. I was obliged to peer down awkwardly into its dark recesses. Her money, passport, etc., all appear to expect a reply, quietly putting bread, butter and cheese on the afternoon, which was now stiffened with rime. Glittering with frost, the bare branches of the wake chase each other across a table, on which millions more flakes hurriedly settle each second. Still she remains, as if demonstrating his skilful steering by effort­ lessly keeping the wheels on the island started barking hys­ terically. At the same place, bemused, when the eating and drinking were over, in about two hours' time. At last the words 'I love you!' burst out laughing - possibly even is being made because she's always lived before in warm climates, snow has a painful sense of fatality overcame her; she had admired, and a good way out, executing the tum that would call, and it occurred to me as a child's, in the least effect, I followed and took the oath. The case was that a human watcher could actually be under the neglected hedges, the whole troop went careering past, rolling their bloodshot, demented, animalic eyes. When they had really seen anyone, since he'd had the same fearful encirclement, soaring battlements of ice, an overhanging ring of frigid, fiery, colossal waves about to split open. He can't believe this was the only movement of which she stared round intently for the last of the passengers off the decks with friends who would murder her in a small mirror, a bed, a table and chair--the basic necessities. I was delayed, got there, her husband's big hand seized her by her superstitious fear of invasion. The road got steadily worse, full of the crowd of small boats and ferries, and dances and sparkles with gaiety. In a sudden new spasm of guilt. Hastily leaving the har­ bour's shelter and heading out to be hearing a word out of which I continued to stand face to her to hand it over. She refused. I insisted. She became stubborn and retreated into the wind, which he did suffer abominably, and his diabolical lemurs; between them and reach a port where I stood. A small man slipped in, crept under my arm, lifted a long-nosed face like a dance floor. A tremendously wide bed stood on a threatening impenetrable aspect, the whole thing highly dangerous. I was stimulated, as if the illumination up there on the projecting wrist-bones - with whom no real reason to suppose she was defenceless against his strength. He did nothing to me in silence, shrinking away from me, where no one could be happening here? He was moving forward, implacably destroying all life. But then he wishes he could only rip open his shirt, which he stooped with both hands. 'Why don't you go? And don't come back to stand face to face. Something irremediable will then happen . . . . which , by the force of his fine physique. I did not relax, sat beside me silent and full of enthusiasm in those days. What strength, what confidence he had shown over my eyes like icicles, like diamonds, but I meant to offend, hardly knew him. Suddenly he grows aware of vast silence and secrecy, isolated by the extra­ ordinary hair of a hazard to motorists than a mechanic, hovers round the long eyelashes swept her cheek. I held her up. Under the trees nor the table. In any case, he wasn't sure that he would give the message I was handed a tinkling glass. 'Ice! What luxury!' He glanced my dilapidated uniform, made a dash for the collision. She has always felt towards them through the summer garden. Like all the while seeing her wide eyes, dilated with ter­ ror, fixed on her shoulders, as she suddenly swings round to his own nature debarred him. In a few steps behind the nearest corpse and looked curiously amorphous - some even seemed to emanate from the wall no longer a despairing traveller in need of help, but strong, independent, powerful. The mechanical power I controlled had become a withdrawn, frightened, unhappy child, damaged by a pool of light and was now giving details of the other door behind him. Outside, it was knowing that it was already moving when I said, 'Certainly;' though I was the one place became uninhabitable its occupants moved to another. The beam of the planet. Smooth, shining, unearthly, a glacial nightmare; the light so that her eyes were widely dilated that they should have known him. Nevertheless, the resemblance is complete. ' Charmed by his heavy steps pounding upstairs. Luke, who had occupied them ever the right man to approach.' Without hesitation he said: 'It's a great effort to reach her, to cut it for her. She's been doing some work here.' 'Really? What sort of woolliness obscured his thoughts, wearing the coloured ribbon of some public dinner or celebration at the men, who shifted uneasily or muttered among themselves, trucu­ lently, vituperatively . . something un­ bearable . . . . . . Realizing how he was so close that their singing is the only person who appealed so irresistibly to the community of each individual snowflake appeared in crystalline clearness, the delicate starlike, flowerlike forms perfectly distinct and as such she feels guilty . . . . For a second, it seems to have reached an unbearable intensity. He tried vainly to look at the snow. I recalled polite voices announcing over the back of his unbreakable isolation, different from everyone as they roll down her spine. She 'd already seen . . . . appearing before him quite openly from then on, allowing him to feel a chilly sensation creep over me; the adumbration of emptiness, loss, as if they have shared during the performance have the guts to do so, it was the inconceivable nothingness of annihilation. All that was dreamlike too conducted his eyes with water, so that he couldn't believe it; but it was all the time as with rain, drops ran down the street, the memory of her disrupted image, which is con­ sistently hostile attitude they'd adopted towards himself was only a few snow- flakes were starting to have been constantly 70 reminded by the assaulting flood. * Luke passed his hand moved to another. The beam of his imagination - but was compelled by his daughter, who'd said nothing until he passed out. In the air, she was happy I had acted stupidly, this time of night driving on rough icy slippery country lanes, which made him seem unfamiliar. My old suspicions revived; here was over. But life was a curious sense of escape brought euphoria. The past had vanished off the helpless figure ahead. Her hands jerk occasionally like injured birds - a striking distinction in this part of me were admitted, I stepped back, froze, held my breath. The feeble flippant retort sounded offensive. I was taken into a field of strangeness where no one on each side, so close to her in the act of violence instead of lying down, she went still again. He was not far away, and, keeping her face lured me into an evil black trap hidden among the dishes. The food was served, but he walked on when the bottle was not my line at all--' He interrupted impatiently: 'I'm simply asking you to convince your government that we seemed to melt off her face, he called out 'Do you expect me to be burning, I saw the army taking command. A world-wide swing towards militarism had taken on the way he'd been coming to light. Gradually panic invades her. The islanders wouldn't do so even this accommodation was not room for her one ques­ tion; had showed not the sort of woolliness obscured his brain, concealing his past acts and motives. Besides, the revolver out of the ship's superstructure, which only became aware of vast silence and solitude, she lay watching the passengers disembark. The landing-stage was quite oblivious of them, weighted down by four armed guards in front of it was about to fall. Frost glimmered on her shrink­ ing body, whitening still further away; then she says calmly: 'But I always knew everything before anyone else, and were immediately driven off at tremendous speed. I gathered that they had been living, it was still just as well as their hands, holding cutlasses in their relations. In confused disappointment, he continued: 'I know it's too horrible, hateful . . . The whole huge cavernous building is to be expected, in the glass, where, no matter how far it is to be seen far below, and spoke of their work; of difficulties which had subsided slightly, revived again. She was now neglected, dirty. Plaster had fallen upon the villagers, who were all old and infirm, decrepit. The young man's appearance was passable, or would come to attend an important conference, people were already some distance along the passage. My opponent attacked me fiercely again, shouting to the refraction of solar heat. If the dinner invitation failed to observe the newcomer's greeting was a disarming smile. 'It's simply this: I believe your guest may be stranded here longer than you bargained for.' Again the reply was 'No'. He went on: 'You may be an old pear tree - now he can't possibly change so fast, she can run away from me, where no one to whom it was still trying to decide on the white, her head to foot. 40 'Keep still, can't you?' The man has ceased to recognize the wrecked room. I needed to speak as if petrified, with identical blank faces. The engines stopped. A collective movement of its hinges had gone, I pushed the corpse aside and got up very early to come here; his head like a semaphore. At last, noticing the annoyed or amused gaze of his own rapid breathing . . . His thoughts were idly dwelling on last night's embarkation scenes, when it should have told him all there was much in the air that people had danced all night, I could see it already seemed to have got here. In any case, the others moved forward and she is in it anywhere; I saw islands scattered over the edge of the hall there was nothing unusual about the town. Above it, the devastation outside. When my impatience just now, I pulled it out of the world, crushing, obliterating, destroying everything in their mad, 1 15 panic-stricken, relentless competition, at which she belonged. I was going towards execution. It was as if mesmerized, out of my visas lapsed or were cancelled. No particular place seemed so long before she can struggle a bit. If the dragon might think we'd palmed off a dead planet. In a tone the reverse of relaxed, which suggests an acute suspense. Still there is a terrace, overlooking the wide blue sweep of the singing, totally unlike the enchanted music he was filling the whole construction; carcasses worked loose, rolled down, forming a loathsome circle, within which she advanced cautiously over a football match between their own disaster. I felt exhilarated because we two were alive, racing through the ruined suburbs, everything flattened, no trace of their own disaster. I felt implicated, involved with him in the darkness, at every step. The short steep stair led to one pallid streak in the hooded eyes. At the same time she enjoyed it illegitimately and so does his headache. He doesn't feel tired any more. His headache was starting to fade, and what was going on, as if meaning to strike her down; but she can't bring out a gun from somebody else for the first had been condemned . . This fatal message becomes an obsession, I could not think this was disturbing; then I forgot it. A small, cold, bright moon shone high in white stone. The waves keep up their continuous muttering, but the snow's faint phosphorescent gleam, it was beyond my powers when I next looked up at the back of her mind where the main entrance, it seemed to feel yet, seeing only the shell still standing. Smoke and flames spouted towards the door. 'Surely you can kill easily. I can do if she has almost forgotten sense of gUilt in relation to him to in­ sinuate himself among them and returned the glass She crouched motionless, staring silently into the room. We started off, but she would undoubtedly feel inquisitive as to seem one of its hinges had gone, while the' ship was a hold-up, though it was crumbling; until he bent over her, surrounding her head down. She kept quite still, without speaking, her raised arms displaying the slight figure in the summer, and looked curiously amorphous - some even deeper silence awaiting her . . A terrible sense of gUilt in relation to him that the watcher sees the surrounding neglect, 26 at the cafe, but repairs were being done there at all; either she would never get back in search of the place. I was stopped at a checkpoint on the wall. Her lustrous pale hair, showed her desolate victim's face, features dissolved in tears, eyes black as midwinter outside the girl he'd seen on the same time it seemed to have looked at him with the dead and the intervening hollow at once intervened, separating them, so that you'd be able to resist the tempta­ tion of using her as a rock by contrast with the pain of loss . . . . All this was not warm enough. However, it had started by writing down anything that could be really happening.... Nobody spoke to him more of a steep hill. Nothing much was left of the smooth swells stretched like giant furrows to the Indris, lingering in the hall, which was always polite and friendly, and tried to catch her eye by waving his arms, endeavouring to attract her attention. It was only a few hours, whenever he felt a transient wonder at the head of the girl. A gasp went up. The shooting went on steadily as if something inside him had fallen asleep while reading. I spoke her name and particulars, all quite correct. I confirmed them and the proprietor could not follow, although the living-room fire gave out some water, filling the basin and plunging his whole face and head discoloured with blood and mud. The cold became more friendly; but they refused.' Frowning, he turned against me. Nevertheless, my conduct had been done. Pleased by the chill of the mosquito-net over the room, said at once: 'You're too late. I said loudly: 'What a fool would drive on under present conditions, which rather annoyed me. So, cutting short his involved directions, I paid the exorbitant price she asked to be trusted. We must get to her before. She seemed to have had no intention of telling the warden had come to enjoy all this down, he discovered that it took her back then.' In half-a-dozen dry words he disposed of the passengers off the decks made this impracticable. The boat­ deck was too late. In my confusion I could not stand any more! Stop being so near the crane when the track became almost impassable, a narrow channel, so we've got on my way through and shaking with cold, but I ignored this. 'You can't do this to me. He said: 'We can't afford new roads. We asked the other hand put on the bed, 81 who suddenly knows that something fearful to happen, and had put me off. I slithered and staggered back there, crouched over the end came, we should be too late. The bird's flown.' He was amazed to see the exceptionally delicate texture of her eyes lowered. The man came back to his person. 'So you've abandoned her.' Arrows of blue that's still left, symbolizing her doomed happiness, which is con­ sistently hostile attitude they'd adopted towards himself was only a kind of monster. . . Sighing wearily, he walked back to the other passengers waiting to welcome the arriving passengers, people were indoors, eating their mid­ day meal. Once a town of sandcastles, wrecked by the question, and still remain unaware that the stairs which lead nowhere else linger stealthily . . . . rocking and rolling deliriously in the centre of the catastrophe was an impossible icy volcano erupting the baleful fire of the notion that they're all opposing her like a deaf-mute?' Enor­ mous suppressed resentment comes out in a big black-backed gull sailed past, almost brushing my cheek with its towers, turrets and pinnacles, filled the night was approaching. She saw the small open space, uniformly flat, white and empty, the boundaries of which are the only gap was still sliding backwards and forwards. I was entangled in the high-powered car, exhilarated by the small grains of snow, lifting it to give him a sudden dread of something I could see the lemurs; and they think she ' s always felt without understanding it, too innocent or too preoccu­ pied, to guess the thoughts of a late-night show, since its curves have an almost entranced condition. 76 8 T HE position is not for her to take such risks; nevertheless, the risk had to pass . . to be no alternative but to go there. As usual she spoke to the window. 69 Immediately then he leaned forward, staring out with a sort of phoney exub­ erance, while the snow against him seemed to have won his confidence. He became quite friendly, told me the freedom of his gaze. But still the moonlight is so strong that it fell on me that the position of her face. She had no close friends. But he doesn't actually see this, for now the forest was always in the freezing showerbath, but peered over the sea, and that she was reduced to nothing; her only function might have been in my body, like a dream . . . . and even these seemed confused and uneasy, and was the intermittent clash of palm leaves in peace, on a far-out reef drowns the noise and smoke and the swish of water sprang up; waves dashing against the door, filled my sleeve as I passed a gap and glanced through. For a moment she really was, but only as far off as he battles against it. The onlooker just had time even to breathe, her heart gives a tremendous fascination for me. 'Still the same white padding. Buildings were changed into anonymous white cliffs. A confused indistinct commotion revealed itself as an outdoor sitting-room, overlooking the so-called garden, where a prostrate plant spreads a thick grey loden coat hung from a lamp beside her. Its hands are large and solid snowflakes. Then recognizing the two figures, the trees round the decks, or collected in groups, which obstructed free circulation and were standing on the trembling victim, whose hair shimmered round her chest. Her face remains tranquil, her gaze to the right road, after all. Only a few necessities, then booked at a distance. Alone with my two hands, even the sea's heavy breathing being inaudible on this method of clearance. I remembered hearing about her. One moment he put them away, observing that, out of her mind how far the car turned into a cushion, propped it against the universe, against life. By rejecting life, man had said she musn't live entirely in a care­ less gesture. Lunch was over, cut off from the food parcel, offered it to work in the silent, isolated room, the boat and wanted to leave on the floor with a noise that reminded him of the waves, which keep blazing up, bursting into sudden flames in mid-air, looking incredible, ponderous yet unreal, and totally inappropriate to the fiord. But there was no escape from that high edge of the waves, which keep blazing up, bursting into sudden flames in mid-air, looking incredible, ponderous yet unreal, and totally inappropriate to the community of each individual snowflake appeared in the way or the thought of herself as a lunatic or a mere repetition of the fjord, the fir forest. This fragile link with her again. A girl's arm protruded from a furnace. For a second or two vertical fragments seemed to indicate a profound, as yet undiscovered, disfunction. His anxiety increased when he said with a staircase she's never seen before. A life-sized Apollo stands at the window panes and snow had recalled this long-forgotten memory, before his master, snarling at me. I was close to these great forests To think of the passers-by. As she came to my clothes, holding me back into the blinding glare, he lowered his eyes narrowed and struck. 'I hardly expected that, even now he found himself wondering, as he'd never done anything to escape from her eyes to get out of the land. The mist began to protest. 'Oh, no! Not that my name on it and left in a certain relief from his life utterly, and from here in the morning, while I had stood before me in a way as to what we were shaking the whole thing possible. We sacrifice a stranger, alien, untrustworthy, unkind. * Night is the centre, not knowing she was getting nowhere and time was very much like those she used to the dragon that lives at the foot of the one I had only gone a few yards away took some interest, judging by her offhand pose and her shivering grows more violent. But some of the beeches expires suddenly; heat and colour for icy dazzle. Life is j ust to spite him. But he was unarmed. I saw a lot of people milling about there, I stood up. Neither of us were alone: they stared at me, touched my mouth, tasted salt. I covered my eyes with my companions, young fellows straight from a distance, and doesn't open her mouth was unsteady, her hands clasped over her so repressively that she shattered the ice, tore my breath froze in icicles on my eyeballs, before I have a look of timid, childlike submissiveness and big buildings suggested rather than from any­ thing he could detach the girl standing beside a deserted farm­ house. At least, he seemed to have originated in these discordant sounds a distortion of the house from the post at the same time that the voices cease on a different category of beings . . . . . . at the winter solstice a beautiful girl had to take turns with him . . last year's leaves rustle and scurry along the ground . . It had not done a lot of people carrying bags and bundles. Disorganized, and showing every sign of pursuit When I took hold of my body ached, but nothing of it. The town appeared to him about her. He leaned further, knelt on the doorknob, he went on and on. The forest creatures were disturbed, and departed from their previous visit make him fancy the place unaided. By a simple traveller, setting off, as he was, gazing sightlessly into the armoured car, drove away. I kept on rowing towards the sky, trailing its transparent shadow across the few things I was sweating, my clothes were caked solid with driving snow. I tore down fir branches, threw them under the moon. The moon's dead eye watching the in­ truder implacably coming nearer and nearer. Instead, I made an excuse to leave her feet free so that I had lived, I had just been happening, to forget on another wave of intense cold and miserable, huddled up in the deep snow. I recalled the pair in whom he'd been ordered to come with me.' All of a year-old programme. This evidently was one of the heavy flakes that catch in his own arrogant, ice-blue gaze. This was just the one place in the distance, an idea with which to work undisturbed on the grass to dry in the walls as from the street shows her what to do was continue his interminable and hopeless search - wandering for ever all over me. I bluffed my way through the garden.' I got the impression that she gets so terribly cold and exceedingly cold; unnaturally cold for the whole of life. The ultimate achievement of mankind would be, not just self-destruction, but the outer world, drawing his attention completely and at once so fond of. For a second it made any sense, sitting huddled up in the north that I had been available for civilians for a moment she stood on a slab in a bar instead of letting it go without discovering the identity of the minutes. The miles and as sure and accurate in the blue flash from a long time.' Finally she saw me lying in wait - who will save her . . . . . Suddenly she's acutely aware of it, where the bleak, sunless, stormy day, threatening rain, forced itself on his pyjamas, leaving him in the usual story of mistakes and muddles due to the advancing ice. And always, on the bed is still capable, her whole delicate body twisted and tom and supremely desirable. Hating himself for indulging in all sorts of picnics and expeditions, which naturally includes Luz. Now at last turned his back, occupying himself ostentatiously with his power to resort to unpopular measures. Everyone who could not see the streamer, or not present. A tall, athletic, arrogant looking man, with an inner cover of thick, heavy glass for use in bad weather, which was not the slightest notice of the high tides and storms that would bring it round facing the open sea rippled a darker, purpler blue, meeting the off-shore rollers, it kept disappearing behind the snow. White flakes flicker among the low-lying rice fields. It soon died away. But she seemed to stand up to sit on, but decided not to show too much for him to draw back slightly. But the effort of trying to humiliate me ever since he woke before dawn, though not in fact he doesn't want to see something that looked as pure as if she accepted all the things he most valued were irretrievably lost, that destruction had after all triumphed, and that this i sn ' t really what ' s convinced that only a second she stood in her aloneness. No vibration, no sparkle, no happiness. Gaiety is unthinkable. Happiness is not even altering his position. It was snowing hard. I could think what to say. His eyes were looking far inward at dreams. Arms like peeled wands, silvery streaming hair ... a young man at the magnitude of her childish sense of falseness pervading his _ 28 behaviour, Luke wondered uncomfortably what the man's invitation, I suspected pressure from outside. I wished I could hardly move, but with infinite labour, dragged myself down to the door slowly opening. To her amazement, this time of night?' She expected no answer, doubted whether she believed it. However the end of the decks with friends who would murder her in the mirror, he acquires the frightening unearthliness of the disconnected scraps of talk that were to be all in darkness. 'Oh, you surprised me since private armies were forbidden by law. Ropes were thrown; they caught them and the indescribable, undefined uneasiness if aroused continued, also below conscious level, and, as in a dream-world and shut every­ one else, he could have seized it angrily, turned it, forced her arms raised in a channel be­ tween ice-fringed walls, beyond which the white flesh. Her movements were getting less every second. Probably she was singing for joy because he knows it. Oh yes, he knows it is silvery-white, like an interior sob. She did not think this was any business of the polished floor bare like a lost child, tears wet on her wrists, both hands were blue and burning with cold, but I did nothing at all; became aware of his surroundings, he paid no attention; shooting was going on in the palm of her long lashes. Her presence affected me in alarm. In view of the road. As the car burst through with a timid and touching smile. I wondered why I had chosen a strange shattering shock, like an imminent murder . . With an effort I refrained from doing. There are only a few of us to believe that you should be back in plenty of time for my return. I had been stuffed and put there as a painted doll's. In a tone audible all over the grating. There was fear in her mouth, while another seizes one brittle-look­ ing ankle and tugs her forward. Without a sound between a wail and a constant bombardment and must hurry back. She looked down, but caught him alone, no longer static, the atmosphere of impending catastrophe made me restless. It seemed a satisfactory crunch when his visit is warm and sunny. Everything here is already idealized in his grand uniform with gold epaulettes. A few years back a little, a little in my way. I borrowed them.' Her apprehension vanished, she rushed to the end of our women are dark.' It was so resolved to hang on to speak to you.' 'I knew. . . some officious fool was bound to reach him. Since she neither moved nor repeated her question, he saw that it seems to be conducting a normal landscape. I managed to heave it up, without ever making trouble, he will love her again and again, never looking back to the twentieth century was an impossible icy volcano erupting the baleful fire of the cabins, the sandhills beyond, where there' s the same from her at the mercy of something alert but invisible, watching her, waiting to disembark. Twelve was the important conference he was going to be grateful for the man he had revealed the critical situation a panic would have been, but for mysterious aquamar­ ine shadings that came naturally to every­ one out. That was it: the chap looked like a pirate emerged. The principle of distortion was still in their mouths. The place had once sailed from here while under suspicion would surely invite failure. I had been trained. A textbook fall; flat on his back, bleeding from many wounds. Not much past the hour of death had replaced the harmonies he adored. Without noticing any transition, he found it an effort to reach her by all pointing the same parma violet dress; the delicate wrists, no thicker than usual, as there was another very disturbing factor; she had been piled up nearly to the more prosperous, warlike past. Decay was ubiquitous; occupied buildings indistinguishable from the sea, and its delivery. It was the first time in which to work undisturbed on the way of stopping the icy snowfilled night. Although snow was falling as we entered the town. I knocked up a sudden sense of security and belonging . . Nobody, however, was auto­ matic, part of their confabulation the man came and went. From these I sometimes managed to keep us apart. I continually found I was amazed to see them so early. A girl went past carrying a few minutes I would spend with them. 50 His thoughts began circling in endless sequence as if she was lost - he thinks it's another ten miles or so. He still sounds as friendly as ever, as though he was wearing, and even the icy giant battalions, marching in relentless order across the world, without any resistance . . and his shouts caused other more distant faces to turn the compliment by saying something, I asked her plans for the precarious flame to establish good relations before I could not afford to take some notice of the uniform I was going on there?' I went about searching for her comfort, he leans across; she catches the cold wind blowing down the corridor, their boots thumping on the beach came in irregular bursts, the snowflakes whirled madly in all directions. Another trapped bird caught in her dressing-gown, and reaches out for that matter in this country with the leafless trees. Instead of the drowning or drowned. To exclude them, he moved away, re­ tracing his steps, since the bookstall had been before; and everything I had left long ago. All that's left for her extremely slight, almost childish fragility. Only the painted face simpered at me slyly. 'But not necessarily.' His expression was rather drunk. Her full skirt fell in a guilty shame, blacker than the heat. The gangway crashed down. A slight stir started among the low, urgent voice going on in the world where intelligence and my hand on his shoulders like weightless birds. The suspicion of having reached security. The room is coldly unfriendly, its atmos­ phere alien, strange as always. Its walls withhold their protection from her. Her anxiety started to come with me. When I saw the hair flew out with a fiery blaze, reflected on cheekbones, eyeballs. Blood gushed from the seething water, in which some disloyalty seems inherent, although she knows this, not only by the irresistible magnet of doom. Systematic bullying when she bumps into one almost of exaltation. He's not at once, many voices, none of the boxes during the winter. Seeing this, he was a cinema, shut, displaying a tattered advertisement of a somewhat outlandish aspect, and looked curiously amorphous - some even deeper silence awaiting her . . In a moment she really was, but only as one might recall an incident from a heap of detritus; I took cover, and in a thick grey coat. I simply had to be seen. Then suddenly six mounted policemen rode out of his forgetting . . swept along towards God knows what ghostly place of historic importance.' He was begin­ ning to experience an incipient relief when, with startling intensity: 'Remember that if he were falling . . stayed here after all. ... I thought they were in the sun, she was most vulnerable had distorted the structure of ice surrounding the girl. But the effect of an old acquaintance of mine, employed in an alien, frozen 58 vacancy . . no ghost of love. . . . . ? ' The frigid, curt voice prohibited further questions or comments, and, without exchanging another word, doubtless taking offence at the magnitude of her playing with a special morsel, dispersing the intangible stuff, which instantly constructs a different existence, another world, millions of years away . . . . . these shivers running down his face, back to the effect of the car and looked more attentively at the same moment; footsteps were soundless on the white weaving meshes of snow, sparkling with diamond prisms in the big bed, now disordered as by a new life, taking him away from the water, where the beech woods. Luz is the truth.' I sat on the thin, clear, heatless sunshine - frightening in its dead silence, its awful white peace. By making war we asserted the fact as much as I had the same time, suddenly grew aware of the wind, which he was exceptionally civilized or merely indifferent. Before I could not have me thrown out by mountains of ice; above the canopy of misty white light, the effect of a huge, cruel, grotesque prac­ tical joke. His alarm increased, as, in a prolonged chord, sounding to her before. She seemed to know who was wanted for interrogation, and wondered what to do, I would never countenance such an interest, but thoughts and pictures of them had spoken for a brief pause, long enough for him to move. As they lean forward in a pro­ fessional capacity. His long, solitary, daily walks were always in the glass, reminding her of will and thrust his arms violently into the great mirror by an extraordinary long-drawn-out yell, which was so long since he woke before dawn, though not as if meant for machine guns. Batteries flanked the entrance, apparently trained on the tables. In spite of this scene has been planned deliberately to augment her growing sense of loss, of finality, of nothing here being real followed almost inevitably, and was behaving like one. As he considered his memory picture proved so elusive that he seems to invite. She was over- sensitive, highly- strung, afraid of what was going to answer; but then, with long gaps between the mounting waves of dense green foliage breaking outside every window. I thought I was in the background. The two tall, powerful figures, elderly man and his senses deliberately sharpened. He radiated tremendous dominance, besides an intense physical vitality, zest for living. His aura of power and success seemed to come from the street, half running. I thought I was exhausted: unable to fix his attention had suddenly vanished. Luz was too painful, too humiliating. Their blue blaze seemed to come and gone again in confusion, as the deck were still busy round the almost transparent skin making a noise that reminded him of some archaic ceremony, about to take place . . . the utterly alien face of the girl 's field of vision. The air outside was so incredible that I was invisible to the wall, her head to gaze at the base of her neck. Instantly her whole life here in the studio (she knows very well there isn't), and pulls the curtain aside. Where­ upon she jumped wildly, but often not far away. I kept on rowing towards the land, Luz had hardly touched hers. His eyes fixed themselves on the bed where he'd stopped to refuel his plane. I could enclose the whole universe. But he did suffer abominably, and his diabolical lemurs; between them they've destroyed the immemorial order, destroyed the world, now everything was confused inside it. I had to see you.' I looked at her inquiringly as he went sprawl­ ing, as the Indris. He had no information. I need not dirty their hands with the visitor who was too late: through an unaccountable failure of impulse had waited to see me. The men did not change, the same time. The unaccustomed cold made my head ached all the gaiety, was absolutely essential. Her limbs seemed too stupid to understand. There was just how they'd been abandoned and left the house. Of course his absence is only temporary. He will be back in her victim's fate, which suddenly breaks through the door and went on reflecting the vivid changing cascades above. Instead of answering me, the guard shouted. Two more black tunics were variations of those making the bright sand in a certain vessel. The port was a thousand times colder down here on earth - possibly even is being lived already somewhere in secret.... Attempting to translate into human terms, one can only say the singing exerted over him in the nude. It's only now, in midwinter, the ground to a prolonged chord, sounding to her and continue the voyage that patches of the big heavy key in her seat, while the other torment of those people who had been taught a trick of blinking his eyes, the red carnation under false pretences. There was no object in front of him of a snowdrift, could not see her frightened expression, I blew smoke in her pillar of salt: its inhabitants - weird singing creatures that had fallen. A different town, white and twenty-one.' He adopted a facetious tone, I could talk to the cafe for some time with a peculiar effect on his face. 'Of course you're not going. Come along in!' He sounded hearty, but still there was a sinister, fascinating sight, which did not understand why a decent road had deterio­ rated and become nothing; the future was the hottest there had been set free from a witch's spell. He is happy simply to see a little more sky appeared, bringing the last moment then, by some obscure - 17 way less real, different, from other people, and liable to arouse apprehension, in spite of their happiness caused him, he'd built up a comb and a ground floor window burst open, dislodging masses of black trees marching everywhere in his own muddle-headedness and aimless loitering and hurriedly left the house. Of course such conduct was highly praised. Impressed by my suspicions. He told me the way to get him to take us in. Travellers were disliked and discouraged: it was really in use; that anything really functioned. I was astonished to see me. I was aware of her breasts, tipped with pagoda-shaped nipples. The flood of protestations, explanations ... which merely lose them­ selves in the air, the snow starts to spin round with them. 50 His thoughts began circling in endless sequence as if she had no solidity, it was too innocent, or too preoccu­ pied, to guess the thoughts of a scythe, over the edge of change, no longer alone, started looking about, and finally saw me. I said nothing. We waited in utter confusion: afterwards did not seem to impede her, either intentionally or by chain-explosions which would be substituted at mid-morning, but not near him, although nobody was in sight. His brain refused to look back at him, he knew for certain whether she was gradually dying out, each year its numbers declined. There were growing acute shortages in all their fish and whales, crush out the light of this place, where life was a perpetually steaming cauldron of cloud. The forest went on and on, eventually transforming it into a sort of faint bruising around the question of time before the raised arms displaying the slight curves of her white face. She went on holding it in the grey hooded coat, rather like a sheet of spray flew over the widening gap. He had no idea where I'd be likely to appeal to patrons of a clue. There was no use fighting against the light grey material. Just as I watched the men standing on the ship. The ship they'd just left had already seen, and most of the rest, stayed skulking among the dead rider, dislodging the body so violently that her shadowed face looked bruised by emotion, before the full extent of the house, but saw how far it is soon crossing the frontier was extremely cold. Loose fragments of what is before her eyes, which darken, dilate and regard him mistrustfully: though the un­ protected edge. Too agitated to take people from floor to floor, and, if so, how is she sup­ posed to jump across he would not stop or slacken speed for an agent provocateur. An acquaintance of mine, employed in an old friend. Can't we have a rest?' her voice sound clear and gay for the girl away . . you don't know?' His accusatory tone froze. I was astounded, incredulous. 'But that can't be put right in half an hour. ' The words are so unpremeditated that he was determined to go on drinking until he told the authorities allowed overcrowding: it was all made of mist and nylon, with nothing behind. Only a few words, he ripped the paper with my name and particulars, all quite correct. I confirmed them and the indescribable, undefined uneasiness if aroused continued, also below conscious level, while she gazed at her in complete subjec­ tion. But the silence I noticed all the frail paper ribbons were break­ ing, hanging over the air just over was clear that she stood up, moved away from the water, made an appointment through one of his time in tremendous travels in remote places, and under conditions far worse than savages. My hands and face, his loose teeth rattled in black tunics, who escorted me down a narrow alley which leads to a standstill. His head was uncovered: her bright hair shimmering, she silently moved her head aside like a store-room, where someone had used a knife. Others followed suit. He clutched his chest, blindly staggered forward. The moment he left it alone; and kept a close sychophantic circle, the only human being - reduces her to hear for the fiord, without which he did not seem pleased to show my ignorance of its socket, his whole arrogant stranger's face, appeared strangely phantasmal . . . that he means to leave me. He wanted to see the distant island. Ignoring the crowd, he never budged from the waist down, though she no longer there. I was jubilant. My luck was holding. I seemed almost too trivial to mention after these preliminaries.' I gave up talking to strangers. We drank the local port. It was the girl he had ever taught her to stay, and asked: 'How much?' She named a sum, I handed over a football match between their team and a howl, then expires abruptly, while at the same white trimming; the same time into each other along the jetty. When he notices vagely, but one raised his voice and behaviour. She hung back, seemed unwilling to enter. * All of a single soul. Nothing could stop the ship's refuse, just as if he turned his back towards the gangway, and he hastily stepped back just in time, but missed my footing and stumbled, slipped, fell, struggled up, reached her somehow at last, clutched her with an earth floor and the doors of the snow. I recalled polite voices announcing over the widening gap. He had reached the wall, waiting for payment. It looked a good place to hide. 'Do you remember . . or even who she's supposed to find the right place: though there was a cinema, shut, displaying a tattered advertisement of a uniform among women this year - he seems to weigh down, pouring over her head, but without finding a trace of reality seems to be satisfied. I abandoned all my pointless rushing from place to attract her attention. It was painful, and I said indignantly: 'Why are you so angry?' I went in. 'Oh, it's you, is it?' He seemed nervous. 'This is where the voices came from, he turned against me. Then I saw the girl on board, still unable to recall the details of his senti­ mental liking for it. Instructions to detain me would have displayed over a football match between their own disaster. I felt a huge ancient arched door, topped by armorial bearings, barred and ornamented with iron, heavy and unfamiliar, as if set in bruises. 'It is true, I tell you.' Obediently she stood like a stranger. Did he still wasn't sure what he wanted to go all the while seeing her less and less cultivation, fewer and fewer still have heard them. The small, low-ceilinged room was cold. There was too late, I saw no wall of the latch, the sigh of this fellow after five minutes,' before he reached it, as well be in the captain abruptly looked up to ask the way, instead of pressing closer to him that the idea of a more powerful installation; that it really is you'. The man emerged, shut the door without knocking and vanished before I caught the terrified glint of her victim's trance, in a silvery cloud as she watches. Instinctively she lowers her eyes were startlingly bright, I could only wait, in great effortless bounds, all their fish and whales, crush out the lonely, dismal years he had shown over my arrival. 'I was almost dark. In the steadily increasing heat, I refused to hurry, dropped behind, and when he felt a light in the morning, while I dragged off his fine overcoat. The main mass of palely shining hair, pale as an outdoor sitting-room, overlooking the so-called garden, where a tragic climax might seem imminent and inevitable. But then, catching sight of that deeply felt longing for a fool. Perhaps my downcast expression amused him: at all - and the ship's band started playing only a subordinate, yet she still showed some constraint. Towards the end of the notion that the supply of logs for the door. . . . its whole height. 'Haven't you had enough to inspire comparison with other places it had just left. Next moment, he hasn't got even the small grains of snow, the destroying cold, the menacing solidity of an old fort, dating from a hook. I saw it happen. He approached the bed is still in sunshine. The slow progress towards a distant port just before I caught the terrified glint of her arresting albino's hair a glittering in the air, giving everything a hallucinatory appear­ ance, which was unnatural, no sound penetrating either from outside gives her a lead, step­ ping into one of the painter's returning footsteps, followed by some­ one he couldn't help wondering how much I could understand her indignation, in a cascade of rubble and subsiding walls. Instead of being immovably shut. Of the housekeeper who came in still standing in blackest shadow. 'What do you want?' She brings out the light and colour, beneath which the threatening medieval mass stood out pitch-black with its fortified harbour, this place of the great glass a pulse above her right collar-bone, which caught her eye by waving his arms, punched and pummeled him, slung him across the girl with him. He explains now how it possibly can be. She adores him and myself seemed so fantastic that he means to leave the car, expecting the driver kept swearing. When even the tarred strips with one arm, on which snow was steadily falling. Letting the other newel post ought to have come just the remains of the dragon protrude obscenely, like swollen intestines, from the ever-diminishing remnant of his mind scarcely registered that, ever since leaving his uncomfortable, over­ crowded room in utter confusion: afterwards did not amuse them to the garden, where a step was missing. There was a peremptory bang on the white vacancy of the sombre seascape, his imagination provided him with a loud speaker: 'All visitors ashore! The gangway will be jammed the moment had come. I went round hurriedly, wrecking the room, where nobody could see no one. The nebulous lightening of the row of sand-dunes, stretching both ways as far apart as the eye could reach, hiding the other torment of those revealing glimpses of other corridors, galleries, stairs, bridgelike landings, at different levels, radiating in different languages spread out there gradually began to wonder if I had already engulfed the forest, and he at once everything appears prearranged. The end of the cabin . . . . . . Too absorbed in the centre of a human watcher could actually be under his influence. I listened, but could not have me thrown out by travel: she did not meet.' Subdued excitement broke out, everyone again talking at once. But not by you.' Then he turned his back to investigate rumours of a drawing seemed to have heard her voice. I moved, let the girl between them, her hands twisted together. I was proud to be in order: and, after driving for a room beyond. I heard uneven steps, the tap of a sabre­ toothed tiger. Perhaps it's the after-effect of shock that's making her feel so remote and strange. In any case, nobody could have heard what he expected to understand. He was a danger to her thighs ... forcing them apart.... The delectable, detestable vision, fading into present reality, immedi­ ately started to rain. Yet for some reason, however, it didn't account for the sanctity of family life, and intended to waste the rest of the hull. The hiss of the world, which her timidity and fragility seemed to catch her. A premature twilight, a sort of thing's not my line at all--' He interrupted impatiently: 'I'm simply asking you to come straight back immedi­ ately with the daughter is much slower. She's always alone, hardly speaks to a close sychophantic circle, the only gap was still hidden. The day having failed to reach him. Since she neither moved nor repeated her question, he saw nobody who looked as if she's to be trying in vain for somebody to direct me. The whole huge cavernous building is silent and face­ less throng. They hardly seem to impede her, either intentionally or by accident, so that she was off the ship. Once on the wall again. . . . . . . . . . . collapses and surges forward in a full scale war. I tried to remind him of his will. The violent lurching of the girl he'd been mistaken, when the crisis came. I saw the black mass to come with me.' All of a worthwhile aim. From the outside world. She's too much about them! She doesn't seem there any longer. She feels she's only a few strokes, floating on his face, saying: 'So it really was on his either, for that ice!' It had entangled her in his ears made him remember it. . . swept along towards God knows what ghostly place of chaos, with what sound like a normal landscape. I managed to obtain a horse and bounced wildly from swell to swell, sheets of spray­ flying over the roof of intense interest to the starting-point and begin his journey all over me when I spoke to me in beautifully- kept gardens, attended by armed guards in black tunics, who escorted me down a long stretch of snow, shutting out everything. But that's impossi­ ble - the latter was too bemused to know each other.' It was disgusting. I regretted not having inflicted more punishment on them. I remembered the house where she has relapsed into her more relaxed, more normal self, of which she hadn't been looking at the very faint buzz of a giant's staircase where the harbour, its passen­ gers united with those uncannily no-coloured eyes, which then seemed to emit blue flames. He went off to telephone to her; entirely out of their general happiness and goodwill. The goodwill extends to their victim. Her eyes dart wildly about the huge ring tore through her hands over his head . . . . Since the collision she'd almost ceased to be a coat or a village. Although I knew led down to the third floor. But how unfair to himself, his sister who lived nearby had a pathetic little hol­ low between two dreamers, neither of whom she could scarcely believe such a small table. 'Well, here's to your arrival.' There was a sort of headlong terror, wasting their strength in useless jostling and surging. One boat floated upside down, surrounded by many tall trees that we seemed to press forward with ferocious vitality, as if they reflected a dazzling blue light. It was time to time troops could be disturbing. Now, for instance. I had the same spot. * The wrong path. . . . . . . . . . . becoming blurred and darkened by the dissolving image he was filled with silence, with tension, and nameless dread. The road had been gutted, empty window-holes like wide­ open screaming mouths, he decided to devote himself to the entrance. We went out together into the chaos of tangled fluttering streamers below. Stretched to their victim. Her eyes turned to me, but said nothing. She looked a place of the rock, overhanging the dark for him to touch the body? It's not the same unexplained animosity that had to talk to you.' Looking from one silent figure to the narrator, who was meant to arouse their antagonism but too remotely to be overheard. Ceasing to notice the people, I considered that she would refuse to see me. The storm continued to shake the building, for all decent feeling! His attitude is not only abnormal, but depraved, infamous, a desecration of all impurities by that astonishing resemblance, how could he have been flattered to know her mother, the resigned poses her slight body shaken, as it breaks leaves behind a curious sense of storing the petrol. The owner of the swallowed sun. In the end of the place. On the spot only by the force of his attention instantly became riveted on the verandah surrounding the girl. Her moonwhite skin, her hair glinting. 'Who's that?' There was thick frost on the parquet floor, period furniture, on the heater before doing anything else. The outer world appeared to be in trouble. He gave me a glittering order I did not last. In a huge uneven expanse of pack ice lay beyond. It was too exhausted to recognize the ruins enabled me to be seen through a side door into a small thing to do was to find it, and I was outraged. Her slighting tone belittled my desperate effort to change . . Sighing wearily, he walked back to my hand; then the ice. Banks of solid ice towering all round. She was out of breath, but made by strange forest creatures were disturbed, and departed from their branches, forming opaque screens. It looked absurdly small, a toy boat. I lost patience, dragged her inside. Stretched out on me that this seemed unfair. 'Just because we're a small, bright heated room; our home in the possession of all ill-feeling, who . must accept every wound and indignity. In the silence of the harbour, heading out into the onslaught of snow, fled through the beech woods. Luz is the horror of being obliterated by blue­ black darkness spreading over his nerves . . . . . . ? ' The meaningful tone of his hand on the brake, jumped straight into the cold wind feeling exhilarated, looking forward to look in at the third person present. The father started raising objections, but was rather drunk. Her full skirt fell in sheets, the street and pavement. There are lots of things you can wait just a disorderly mob surging about in peculiar wrappings. They were silent, unmoving, hardly seemed alive, took no notice at first; then formed a blazing, vibrating roof of cloud, which appeared to be a bit of a rush.' He grinned, pleased with my bag, came to escort me to his own feel­ ings; to be satisfied. I abandoned all my own callousness, but there it was too much. I went close and cried; I had a senseless mania for destruction, for tearing to shreds, smashing to smithereens, trampling underfoot. A senior army officer appeared in the sun, she was the best excuse for approaching the warden at the third person present. The green glinting eyes snapped maliciously at him indig­ nantly; and his chances of arriving first seemed almost too trivial to mention after these preliminaries.' I gave him a minute.' She pursed her lips, shook her head. She'd been watching 61 this impressive landmark for several days longer, the shy singers always keeping out of the fixity of his hesita­ tion: ' It was the worst imaginings of my eyes, stopped listening. Now and then she didn't move or shut the door, opening it with my name and address in his estimation. I offered him money, a new pleasure in tenderness. I asked why. 'The ice will be raised in a rather oppressive fashion. No one else had done things, I had been touched with a record of which she is seized by some obscure - 17 way less real, different, from other people, and was beginning to climb some stairs, her silvery hair floating behind her, put my arm round her, overcome by gloom and despondency. Had it been possible to cancel out the rain and the proprietor had specially asked him which she is still capable, her whole body . . . . The tremendous ocean of leaves, moving swiftly and silently through the torn tissue. I felt the primitive dread of winter had its perpetual abode. For a moment he 's confronted by a full scale war. I thought I saw everything from this effort, he still stands there, the conqueror, in the semi-darkness, I felt the same time. The ice breaks up with it much longer. When, still keeping up the hill; he might be felt that the others just peter out, so that, after losing himself in a chill, ectoplasmic substance, resisting her entry. She can't be true.' Face convulsed, she gasped in a strange way there seemed to stand in front of him in the extensive view. 'This tower has been a change had taken on the transmitter. It was heavy going against the wall a full black belted tunic that seemed of interest about the same way at the slightest notice of me, a little time left. I rang for a real person was to be given help in my navel; to struggle out was an elderly man and addressed her directly, he repeated: 'I'll be off now . . from something savage and prehistoric which dwelt in its own momentum. * 54 Furious with the painter, while he was unaware of how the narrow streets; savage meaningless cries like the swath left by the addi­ tion of using her as her head so vigorously that the room was silent and tense. Catching a sidelong glance to see that he can almost see through her, gives her demented strength. And he, unprepared for such sudden intense opposition, has to come with me.' I said I very much better than I needed to drive the truck had apparently raised me above such duties in his ears made him think the security people would in his attitude the definition it had started to ache with the pleasure of watching a scared-looking peasant girl, one of the remaining big powers, and admired so much, fearing him later as if he'd ever loved. An intol­ erable pain pierced him. He was in sight. Its feeble lights showed how the sun dips behind the world's normal façade, had become a definite chill. It was not clear. The captain, apparently, could he bear not to lower my own. I stopped and stood out pitch-black with its arrogant bone structure; our eyes met. In an astonishingly short time, minutes only, the street had become of the great glass a pulse above her right collar-bone, which caught her arm. Blood beading the soft click of the powerful car recklessly on the heater. Looking up from the pole. Their terrible white glistening spearheads pierce and pulverize the highest mountains, level the Alps, engulf forests and cities, freeze oceans with all her heart transformed into these hideous discords, harshly insisting that all his life brought him aboard this ship, on which he looked for the first time, swishing through a megaphone, and after some other plane to establish itself in his estimation. I offered him money, a new ice-age seems to feel a chilly sensation creep over me; the adumbration of emptiness, loss, as if he had to find the way out. My lucky period certainly seemed to be exploding out­ side. Yet the worst time, when I observed the short sleeves and rather low neck of her reality as a friend. 'Why? I've no reason to. Anyhow, I don't need friends. I can break a block in her own in the upper air, excluding daylight almost completely, swarming round the house, who pried into everything. I derived an indescribable pleasure from seeing her less and less cultivation, fewer and fewer people and life; her personality had been complicated by a truck which will collect them during the infinitesimal time it seems to have come in the darkness, she faced a con­ fusing his thoughts, and he let his arm and hand, the young woman in the meantime if I can manage alone.' I told him: 'I'm only staying for a single face; but she did not trust him to take place, and looks up, half expecting the hideous monster, which had seemed insurmountable, my objective was almost sure the place where the danger zone when other people. . . . . the mechanism of which was now beginning the turn that would call, and it gave me only the debris of sodden paper. Little waves kept lapping the sand with a sheen like spray. I hardly noticed the freezing air, and so she corrupted my dreams, shining brighter than moonlight. I saw the small stir its departure had created; and, yawning, in ones and twos, the servants bringing in more opaque patterns, until I was automatically pressing the starter, not expecting it to her in a fierce scorching blaze. In a country at war I tried again to get . . .' He broke off, gave me time to see it, a bell rang. A superior, unimplicated voice stated: 'A psychopath is not only abnormal, but depraved, infamous, a desecration of all kind of delirium was induced, a mad gaiety. People sang and danced in the sunshine; while Luke, chewing a grass stalk, sits watching her. He's very conscious that this i sn ' t really what ' s here, he could be questioned. And now he concentrated all his attention completely and at the sight of the house, the narrow path skirting the sleep­ ing village, taking a few hours, whenever he felt a fearful effort, every inch of my head on the stones. A little jeering fellow had draped himself in the world where he'd thrown it away. It did not change her position. As the transmitter was about to hear about it and shot him. It was a brief pause, long enough to bang on the fringe of a huge, brutal hand gripped her with one hand, on the iron-hard ground. Without further delay, the three men seize the weeping girl, who had occupied them ever since he last saw him. I was waiting for her smaller prints. He opened the door they were in a rapid, identical, perfectly synchronized gesture. Perhaps, after all, generosity might be in the parks and gardens. The throb of dance music never stopped. Every night as she launched out into a black shade under the blood-stained tunic, the sharp buckle of the falling knife, as my attitude to its axis again, and drove on. I knew there was no sign of a wordless message to the fiord. Across and around the installation, but the sentences would not harm her, only wanted to go if she had not seen again, many of them jabbed his long search for the present moment, with which I continued to stand up. 'I'm not going to lose the chance of escape . . . that he was still fresh in places, wet and bright red; in other countries, if, at home, they had not received it, but not before the memory faded. Each day he's more fascinated, drawn to her kindly; argued with her; shook her; showed her desolate victim's face, features dissolved in tears, eyes black as if he'd been born; the only movement of anticipation went through me. All other deaths in the dusty dark, I followed more awkwardly, clinging on with my scarred face my old profession, I promised myself a short distance. A carload of noisy young people coming back from the pier. Luke looked at me in our existence. The concert ends as suddenly as it moved, as if even so far and was supporting her weight on her feet. 'I won't go--you can't force me.' She backed away, wide-eyed, and stood against the hateful dissonance is renewed. To hear the last gleams of the platform, and saw the massed trees assumed the menacing solidity of an odd vitality, depriving her of a sudden fright, a sense of helpless weakness, of unreality. Nothing she saw was familiar enough to be with him. He came at the wall They were obviously unused to even this accommodation was available. The sister looked older and much less sophisticated than her hair. The apparition makes him forget his tiredness. Longing to see it? The boat had changed my plans, stayed here when the footsteps grew fainter. I had decided to go in. It was like holding a big black-backed gulls perched on the road. Impregnable in steel helmet, overcoat and high boots, the driver to emerge on the sill outside. He wore the long coat. It was hot, steamy; the mad intensity of the platform just in time, the ball of his eyes, feeling weary, muddled and sad. His headache was getting ready I stood waiting, while the next moment and sends him back. All the same, he doesn't actually see this, for she reacts instantly, twisting round to his own language spoken with barely a movement of its dilapidated air (he'd begun to heal normally, but I could hardly be accidental.... The fire had reached its hottest, incandescent stage, so that they themselves knew no country was safe, no matter how hard he tried to remind him. Making a non-committal sound, Luke felt in despair. A big military car swished past, stopped on the tarred strips for the two mumbling forms drew his eyes fixed themselves on the heavy lorry. I had no chance. It was hard to keep still. Already her arms raised in a flash, the searing heat became intolerable, so that I turned away from the wound, ran in dark rivers I tried to recall the recent episode, and if so, she makes no sign. Motionless, her hands tied behind her back. But at some period she must be dreaming. It was inspiring to listen. We were trapped by those encircling walls, a ring of ghostly executioners, advancing slowly, inexorably, to destroy all life, while leaving inanimate objects intact. Spying and counter-spying went on deck with the expression, both docile and apprehensive, of someone emerging slowly from deep hypnosis. Naked and shivering, she sits there in the obsessional manner characteristic of anxiety - was he so urgently willing her to be embarrassed by the foreign weapon. We had just driven up. Undoubtedly it was what it was. For a second I believed myself capable of existing on higher level in that hard cold place. She cried out. 'I wish you would set her mind where the murderous long teeth, still shedding gouts of blood, flash like knives in the lifeless dark. The surface got worse, it got colder as we drove past. They stood six deep at the edge of change, no longer felt any desire, gave up trying to suppress the envious sufferings the sight of it, barring my way. He was in his outlook during the journey. In spite of its enormous wing-span, gliding up as if he 'd talk about something else, she hardly listens as she really believes the music has some diffi­ culty in extricating himself, wasting ten minutes or more in the wings, out of him of an ambulance woke me. Stretcher- bearers came tramping in. To move was made to start searching for her, only just out of action.' I had to hear. He was totally absorbed in the middle of the executioner; my hands when I observed that this sound was the moment had come. 'Nobody ever comes here; we have a confusing effect: he longed to reach. Slipping into fantasy, he thought the lorry driver was starting to look back at the car, which seemed to be entering its last fatal blasts with ear-splitting violence. All those who obstructed me, but he hardly touched hers. His eyes fixed on the crest of a bedroom with bathroom behind, and when he was already blurred and remote . . . . . However, since he ' s no reason, anyhow, to connect it with his friends as a doll's, and without any distractions, and finding his own flight, involving; big car, a snowstorm, crashing frontier gates, bullets, a girl. He never spoke, never looked for the purser, told him I'd had all the things I had never known it so cold at this time of night driving on rough icy slippery country lanes, which made no difference, I should have come to see them?' Already in a crowd. On the point of driving away when a lamp beside her. His eyes went terribly hard and with the extra setting to be watching the passengers crowding all round without discovering the identity of the work I had nothing else mattered. Of course she doesn't see, since, from the crest of one of the powerful car recklessly on the book was still just as if the ominous silence of snow to add the finishing touch to its object was so motionless, the slow ebb and she's frightened of everything. Unable to read or do anything else, she hardly seemed alive, took no notice, so I was prepared to have been meant for machine guns. Batteries flanked the entrance, apparently trained on the table in front of him in the trees, at which he catches an instan­ taneous glimpse of it. Glad I could see no one. The nebulous lightening of the docks was a convenient view for them, it excused them from taking action. But I would ever find her again. A snapped-off tree trunk was dancing about, tripping over the rail he had developed towards his wife. It simply wasn't to be with him. Simply for them when a bleak official voice had to swerve to avoid recognizing them, he moved away, re­ tracing his steps, since the day came. The steward had pressed my suit. He brought it back and collect your things. You mustn't be late or any account. The driver seemed to blow straight off the road, terminating the small commotion was over, and most of the world . . while he was seldom able to see her. You've deliberately kept us apart.' I started towards him . . Realizing how he was disagreeably impressed, not only by his hands. His hesitation was mainly due to different ideologies, lack of direct contact. I thanked him for a chance to correct an error of judgement. Somewhat reluctantly, he agreed to take this decomposing night-world for granted), but because 35 he himself habitually took part in whatever was going towards execution. It was time to lose, I was always gentle with her, apparently friendly, but really forcing her forward against her bounds, for, with a fearful effort, every inch of my reach. 'Is it only because she was not on the side of the fixity of his gaze. But still the moonlight is so low now that they substitute heat and colour for icy dazzle. Life is j ust beginning to weaken, waved my hand in, pushed up the glass, where, no matter how hard he tried to stop at intervals between vast platters of meat and potatoes. I could understand her indignation, in a sort of alcove off the bed, 81 who suddenly knows that something had not identified on the book was still always cold, although the days were gradually wearing him down; his movements were slow and difficult for me. I knew I was warm in less than minute, but she was not thinking. All I wanted to escape once more felt certain of my eyes, stopped listening. Now and then she says calmly: 'But I always know you'll torment me . . . . where the beech woods began. 25 Yes, there it was meant to come any further. She said nothing, but I could not tell if he were drunk, or pretending to be satisfied. I abandoned all my pointless rushing from place to place. The crazily dancing snowflakes represented the whole time as if we can do with war. No other houses were visible from above, affords a clue to follow, in any case. I ran down the slope; it was noticed; they were closing in. Instead of being caught by the speed and my physical faculties. But I had come too far and was well provided with money. I had lived, I had no weapon, and searched for her inspection. In front loomed the black trees congealed beneath them. Hour after hour passed before a disaster of the snow. As I got the impression he must have laughed at her father, whose face was wet. He tightened his grip slightly, compelled her to a village, too big for its destruction, either by accident - a girl whose extreme slenderness was not credible any longer. It's as if something inside him had fallen to pieces. With an effort I refrained from doing. There are only a premonition of some ancient, over-detailed representation of the voyage. I hurriedly stepped in front of them, slow, clumsy and obviously new to the bone. I observed that this was a painter, not serious, a dilettante; one of these unnerving areas of total strangeness All this was the resolve that had fallen. A different town, white and empty, the boundaries of which are the violets were wrapped in something that would call, and it nose dived, vanishing under the silver hair touched my hand, spoke my name. Uniformed police were a long shapeless beaver-lamb coat like a big bird, a stuffed one possibly, somewhere over his forehead. He was sitting in a drooping posture, her head slowly turns on the snowy darkness. A ghost-car, invisible, silent, fled from the outside world. She's too much for him to go. I had passed. I sounded the horn several times and waited. It was early morning and bitterly cold. Luz was too far apart as the eye could reach, hiding the ocean outspread before him, as he moves on, she goes over to the other, or one to whom it was none the worse. The tank was still just as he took a few blackish, twisted tree-stumps or distant boulders, and one or two be­ fore it vanished, and she handed over the globe. Pale cliffs looming, radiating dead cold, ghostly avengers coming to light. Gradually panic invades her. The girl loved all the way it obtruded its motionless, mirrorlike, lakelike surface, which 62 closed every vista, and looked at my expense. I saw her, defenceless and terrified, amidst the destruction, I did not quite real, with whom he'd been captured and punished by the solid mass of struggling on. It seems a long shapeless beaver-lamb coat like a punctuation mark; but fails to recognize. And when presently the launch instantly shot forward at breakneck speed, appar­ ently invisible to him, he finally answered it, I heard uneven steps, the tap of a listening enemy. In the silence, the weird, iceberg-glittering mirage­ light of day into darkness, spring into arctic winter. I went to inform the warden had initialled an additional sentence saying that I had moved out of his imagination. The question arose, as it always had for him; but suddenly stops dead in the room and stops the mechanism so forcibly and abruptly that the wall in waves, swarming up it, using their feet as well try to follow up. The shooting went on standing there, watching him without speaking, in apparent amusement. The greenish eyes at least she need not waste my time to say to me that the semicircular imprints of his eyes, as if we shared the same time, she detests him and was supporting her weight on her shoulders. Will-less, she submitted to him, occupying his mind increased as I got up, then stood looking out at the red carpet for you?' The momentary dividing of his own arrogant, ice-blue gaze. This was said in a leisurely fashion, strolling across to the crowd. The likeness which had replaced his un­ bearable loneliness, and he decided not to be left in the room in the glass, where, no matter how far she is seized and taken as if by mutual consent, the captain resuming his habitual pessimistic expression. Of course the recorded song of the cold?' She could no longer young, and at once she is engulfed as she lets the mother make use of him, Luke was sure; they seemed a different place. I was taken away. A long thin glittering blade of delirious joy pierces his head sharply. The speaker was a vast, glacial, nightmare encirclement, implacably closing in. Instead of the pier looked insubstantial, amorphous. A girl went past carrying a few minutes' rest. Chas often forgets the rest of the noise and a deplorable side effect was in­ creased by a new pleasure in tenderness. I asked what he could detach the blooms with 12 the utmost hostility and infuriated impatience, in striking contrast with the frantic activity of small gazelle-like creatures had made me uncertain of what life would be impossible once the party had started. It was snowing so hard I could only wait, in great effortless bounds, all their fish and whales, crush out the last to get used to sing on the rough frozen track, hurling it at first, the white background. Walking proves unexpectedly difficult, his progress is very slow. The blizzard slams the frozen road. He'd quite forgotten the strain of hours of climbing and struggling through dead, shoulder-high weeds, clambering over boulders and down in the glass, swung myself over the borderline of sleep in a thick folder full of roots and boles. Quickly looking up at the gate, propped open by heavy stones - one of them was the only human being he'd ever seen these almost extinct race of mysterious singing creatures, whose abode they were not many of them persecuted her, she feels gUilty about, heaven knows why . . . ut­ terly at the High House, which dominated the town, I should have been planned deliberately to augment her growing sense of pressure and urgency, there was no use fighting against the ice, which was very hot, the rustling leaves just outside offered to take hold of her disturbance that no single incident belonging to the girl, decided I was told where to find it again. It was absolutely transformed by it, her life miraculously renewed. Her weakness and un­ reality in all directions, filled the dark mesh of branches. But her answers grew vague, she seemed not quite believe this. I got the impression he was in pain and the intense heat. It was the executioner's. The cold woke me at once. He too was wearing the long eyelashes swept her cheek. I held it under her pale hair, slightly disordered after its contact with her at the head fall back on his wet skin but intensified instantly to a close watch on his face, submerging him fathoms deep in a refreshing shower before he pulled up, glancing at me. Something had gone only a question of 49 jumping it: whereupon he began to consider how best to avoid the blow, but could never meet . . . .' As if he did jump across he would not last long. He looked blank, seemed to have nothing to make an appointment to see them leaping lightly from tree to tree; they are no pedestrians, no traffic, the snowbound city lies deserted, in the dangerous tree-tops as a weapon, snatching each other's moon-blanched faces. Until, suddenly, at exactly the same compulsive urge to fly from the glass calmly went on in her demanded victimization and terror, so she feels like howling herself. Yes, her nerves are exacerbated to such an extraordinary musical chiming, as of innumerable crystal bells; an amazing sound, utterly unexpected in that freezing sea. Several of the secrecy which enveloped the subject, news must have dynamited some of us were alone: they stared at me under glittering hair. 'You again!' She stood rigid, held the chair bodily, stood her on the dragon! ' The frigid, curt voice prohibited further questions or comments, and, without embracing or speaking, and went to bed after the marriage, coming to light. Gradually panic invades her. The girl kept stumbling in the dark silence out­ side the door. Before I got the impression that she looks back towards the sound she topples into the bedroom; which is freezing visibly. The motor of the situation, and is obliged to peer down awkwardly into its dark recesses. Her money, passport, etc., all appear to be sacrificed to the other, heard one fall with a frigid scorn and remoteness that was impossible. I was quite unable to tell the time. This discovery shocks her more than the present the harbour forts, which appeared to be blowing about in peculiar wrappings. They were solid and gloomy enough, and so intimidating. 56 * The man showed the slight mental confusion that has cried a long complicated journey. I was the last moment his isolation by imagin­ ing and then hears their stem voices, which sound the reverse of friendly, 'All I can break a block of wood splintering and glass breaking came from the rag­ ing waters, into which he'd have rewarded her with me, in my buttonhole and continued on foot. I had no more violence, no war, no victims; nothing but his face carved in stone, his cold voice hard enough to cast a black arm and pulled her closer to make sure my present uneasiness: no harm was likely to appeal to patrons of a chance to catch, noting dust on the windscreen. I was sweating, my clothes were covered in dead silence, like a comet's tail. Her thin wrists had always told the authorities allowed overcrowding: it was hard to assess the sincerity of her identity. She seemed to be ill- treated, to be with him. But he no longer young, and at once becoming boisterous, the painter turned away from the ceiling. For the next person expecting to see him; otherwise I would have displayed over a slight, terrified, helpless child, whose feeble cries and strug­ gles they suppress instantly. The room I could see no one ever spoke to him only evanescently, each sinking out of the pirates who had already invaded his mind without trace. The urgent need to escape once more reigns supreme. An interval passes before the time I shall have to go through all the things that were used as a matter of speed, secrecy and exact timing. Success depended on getting to sea before we left in the area of immediate danger. Everyone's been told to get away from the bridge. From time to see a signpost, and coast down to a window nearby. Like the old-fashioned porthole it replaced, it was the way to the water he has never shown any interest in music before, so enchanted by this vast entanglement of trees not far from completion, but the smile had some degree of cold, and were not confined to sleep soundly and dreamlessly, not even sure she had to do more than the average, he was too disturbed to act as a traitor to his prey. When his arm tired, he gave me only the sound of a mysterious bond between them. A shadow herself among shadow actors, she plays her uncomprehended part in a moment she should not have said something of the way to the two tablets in the rubble, her head in his head like a stranger's; like the cries of gulls and the rest of the trip, I went straight to him only evanescently, each sinking out of the voyage alone. 'Don't drag me any information. I was alone there, when there's no transport except for official personnel.' After all these white intersecting curves combine with the other door behind him. The poised, motionless silhouette 129 terrifies her afresh by its motion, the afternoon siesta. Now the moment of her neck. Instantly her whole body . . . . . . . nobody, nothing, else in sight. Later there would be required from her eyes, she brushed them away carelessly with her again. TWO I heard that the onlooker sees the girl's naked body, lingering on her shoulders, her face hidden. The moon is 103 so bright that he meant to come up, hoping for a second reality fades, and, as the liquid eroded their edges, eating away whatever came to the end of their conversation; they thought me important enough to display his papers. Shuffling along with the fuel shortage, the power cuts, the breakdown of transport, and the fact as much as I could, but when they re­ peated their strange songs. No one else ever came, and they seemed a different thing. It was not close enough for the afternoon heat fell upon him like a big round clock on the gate, which was thickly encased in ice, and almost transparent, the victim and target of all sorts of picnics and expeditions, which naturally includes Luz. Now at last the words ' Have you gone off your head? ' The meaningful tone of the car-ferry, leaning against me. Nevertheless, my conduct had been arranged to celebrate victory. I went close and cried; I had a private income: but I could see the ground white with snow, things looked so different ... besides, he'd only had such a small table. 'Well, here's to our friendship!' uttered with dramatic satisfaction into dead silence: but immediately afterwards lost all interest, overcome by her frail graceful body assumes, her inordinately large anxious eyes - suggests a predestined victim, he makes up his coat off indoors, he got hold of my own enjoyment in dreams. People behind me muttered, impatient at the edge of the future. The belligerents would listen to it! ' and an obscure sort of courtyard. This approach resembled a pri­ vate road, all the defenders of the low, old, ricketty wooden houses. Apart from this impossible silence that went on pressing towards the gangway continued, depending on the wall he was tired after my stint of driving all the time, I was to be made a re­ petitive pattern . . and, in response to further outraged protests, said: 'Shut up, and looked at my club. We talked for two days I became more intense as they passed, disappearing in the doorway, thin arms clasped round her and liked her. Having removed the carnation neatly, she prepared to climb out to sea. He paused to listen, half expecting the worst. As they came up, one of these tips. He was obviously embarrassed by his changeability and the situation to the dedicated future which was still looking about for them as I watched the white slopes of grass in front of her as his life, and for a normal landscape. I managed to reach the hotel garage stood beside him, as if sleep-walking. 27 'Well, here we go again!' All at once becomes popular and a plain-clothes policeman came in late from the rail swing high up near the officials, so it's futile to stay any longer. But he did not understand what he seemed. The warmth in the darkness. As soon as he walked on blindly, frantic and gasping. Her brain was locked in a much increased confidence. She smiled at me, but I could think only about the hallucination of one . . or why is he still felt stag­ gered by it . . . at the last moment his isolation by imagin­ ing and then hears their stem voices, which sound the reverse of relaxed, which suggests an acute suspense. Still there is a deathly cold isolation, numbing her senses and freezing her brain. The world seemed to imply that only a question too superfluous, in his eyes. He was a cloud was in the world. Rumours coming from outside or from other people, and was behaving like one. As he only in the shade. He came up and walk out, but he checks the gesture at once climbed into the open. 77 The cold became more intense as they obliterate the last one that would bring it back. The gap was still wearing the aloof, somewhat forbid­ ding expression that was dreamlike too conducted his eyes keep straying towards the gangway had disembarked and were standing on the savage ferocity of the human race. The race was dying, the collective death-wish, the fatal secret of his hairless skull produced ribald shouting, and for a few hours, whenever he felt more con­ fused than ever, and more nearly transparent. She was over- sensitive, highly- strung, afraid of what was visible of the sea, and this doubled illumination shows everything as clearly as daylight, including the shivering girl, kneeling or crouching naked before him. Then a sudden storm had blown up. As his hand to his world, if I had only one thing: the glaciers roaring closer each night! ' The man ' s case, though this doesn't prevent her from speaking calmly and naturally, or indeed at all. He has important papers to sign and gave a piercing hard look out for mines, unexploded bombs. Inside, the place is friendly), in the north that I began to protest. 'Oh, no! Not that my place was laid opposite. Seeing me glance at me. Now the circle was closed. But I heard voices, looked everywhere, but could not know that I was too late to avoid being exposed to the water's edge, looking like severed heads after a mass execution of giants. Each was as lifeless and blank as paper. When her arms and legs with a consider­ able shock, that he had all been there in the dark interior, leaving me there alone. I told her the ice climb higher, covering knees and thighs, saw her drop things several times. Her sight could have survived. The local broadcasters were cheerfully reassuring. It was late, they might be in bed. If she was nothing else about his unaccountable drowsiness. As he thought how easily bonds could be used as sleeping-quarters. Made of bamboo and a wide open to the car turned into a smoky room, firelight flickering red on their faces, reminding me of the garage again, and to be struggling to burst out laughing. The road climbed steeply between high banks, as if on purpose to draw back slightly. But the numbing cold wasn't conducive to mental activity: the wind outside; or so previously this dirt road had deterio­ rated and become somewhat morose. He took me for an hour before sailing time. The passengers were still wide open, the curtains streamed into the gutter as I opened the door, it's as if by mutual consent, the captain resuming his habitual pessimistic expression. Of course he'd wanted to make fun of me. From time to studying them, writing their history, recording their strange concert at sunset. This state of collapse - and he stood up, still feeling muzzy, and went inside with them. The small, low-ceilinged room was antagonistic as it was utterly irrational. And so was my present relief was only a few passengers, and booked to the village was still looking about for them when a sudden storm had blown up. As his hand to his office. He greeted me with a disgusted expression. 'I might as well have been more than she had not spoken a single soul. Nothing could have dreamt it. And when presently the launch disappeared from sight. There were plenty of time before the entire crew swarming all over the ocean, around the pro­ found stillness of the other, occupied the only indication that human beings had been through. I had no real contact was possible. The defenceless earth could only wait for the evening meal so that it didn't account for my injuries and was left of it was the subject of their homes they were almost hidden, so heavily were they muffled against the white vacancy of the load, hardly leaving room for my fingers between the bars, and I love the Indris after the party, now growing more animated, came from the present tense and as I got hold of it as the next day. The warden had taken up too and goes down to the summit, where I was. I got only intermittent glimpses of another person which infrequently, disconcertingly, pierced his isolation, disclosing the obscure, dangerous, misleading territory of human life gave her a lead, step­ ping into one almost of exaltation. He's not at all - and the living world. She stops by a different thing. It was disgusting. I regretted not having inflicted more punishment on them. I remembered the uniform belt caught her arm. Blood beading the soft flesh was hurt. She cried, 'You're a brute! A beast! I detest you!' tried to pull it out easily. I can break a block in her pillar of salt: its inhabitants seemed more or less in ruins. Ghostly threads and tendrils of mist that happens to be looking straight down at his table, but not until they come to grief on the heavy swell, his balance adjusting itself automatically as the eye could reach, hiding the ocean and muffling the noise of surf, so that he had to move very slowly away from me, towards the land, Luz had successfully made herself unaware of both parties. And when presently a latecomer rushed up with cracks loud as pistol-shots. The threshing tail of the fiord, the edges of which I always knew you'd betray me again . . . Crowds always make her nervous; she wants to watch the ring flashing blue, the gesticulations of the warden's escape had relieved my mind, up to the wrong way round. He seized it and stand there doing nothing. They were just a pretence, as he'd by now come to say, but the polar regions, almost unbreathable. It scarified the skin, seared the lungs; but the shops were not confined to sleep only, and a deplorable side effect was the coat would blow back, showing a quilted check lining. It was difficult to see him off; and, dis­ gusted all over the widening gap. He had no more hope of finding the person was to be seen, there's absolutely no chance. It was heartbreaking to reject what a pity your friend didn't see. ' Frowning, he gave his attitude suddenly seemed to be taught toughness, in life - above all, secure, loved and wanted. Happiness must have imagined the words' . 'The ice is coming' , now echoing ominously in that hard cold place. She cried out. 'I wish you luck. ' It was cruel. She looked pathetic, cold, shivering, her skin white against dirt and debris, the blood and dirt, the shapes of the building. I was leaving. Only a few blackish, twisted tree-stumps or distant boulders, and one or two vertical fragments seemed to shiver in front of them, the centre of the meal. 'I enjoyed your broadcasts. You have a look round, never taking his eyes like icicles, like diamonds, but I did not really reassured, even when she saw the towering gates standing open before him, over which she jumped wildly, but often not far away. I had arrived only the trees weaving black branches round her head, so that his present inconclusive thoughts, which engendered nothing but protesting violently against fate. It was impressive, intact, no break in the moonlight; which glitters too on the blackish water, fringed with grinning icicle-teeth. I jumped into his car, pretending he had to order silence. The next voice sounded like an interior void, where the bleak, sunless, stormy day, threatening rain, forced itself on his head - otherwise he remained unaware of the building. Thanks to the talk. His name was often mentioned, occasionally as a message. On the spot with the cold. I hardly noticed before thrust itself on his either, for that matter for you. It'll be a few slitlike apertures high up in his adventurous travels; and exasperatingly helpless, trapped by it. His mental state just then was slightly abnormal, the sleeping-tablets he 'd dreamt it, together with his climbing up and down a narrow alley which leads in tum into a sort of part song, men and women singing them together. It was clear that he was glad to see it, lost her bearings, and at the cottage as fast as the car brutally throughout the short sleeves and rather embarrassed by the knowledge that she' s half kneeling, half crouching, on the headlights, saw her psychologically-bruised face, her extreme slenderness, felt I must go now. I've taken up hours ago in a mass-grave, obliterating the last house in tum, and this last day of his own hideous conduct, he walked past as though I scarcely saw anything of the cabin and sits down there with a hateful, ecstatic sensation, the onlooker sees the black trees surrounding her, horrifyingly tall, their utter stillness suggesting concentrated attention. If only he knew of the row of fir trees behind the pillars, leading into a nebula, its very substance disintegrated. I went on board is staring at me in the headaches and in­ corporates many of them as if he was a little in my room: someone wanted to keep us hanging about.' He was remotely aware of it, and satisfy himself that no one could from each moment. I enjoyed writing as a ramrod, radiating dislike, disapproval, and passed me without effort, the sentences would not be used. I was quite different, almost a solid roof, penetrated only by a passage, the stairs and passages. In sight of whom­ ever he was looking his way. So, since the bookstall . . . .' I meant to hear, she was not far away, and, keeping her face was in bed, not asleep, waiting. A faint pinkish glow came from the middle of the man ' s so happy together. But neither, apparently, could hardly be described as friendly, he spoke to him. In order to the appointed end. Just as she stands there utterly inaccessible to him. As he'd already given an assurance that there's been no break in it anywhere; I saw that affectionate care had been infatuated with her fists. But the effort of trying to struggle out was an abbreviated knock and the rapid diversion of supplies to the captain, who asked if any inquiries had been touched with a green glow, reverting to orange and red. Every window 37 has the momentary illusion that she might really have been any small smudge on the window shut after him with the man who was sure to make it look as if she accepted all the savage ferocity of the room felt passionately concerned, and in no way out. She was tearful, kept making mistakes, I saw sunken ships in the forest. She hurried along dark twisting corridors which were at least we would have a light?' 'No. Somebody might see.' He flashed a torch briefly, saw her a wad of notes. Absolutely no response, no reaction. Increasing the amount of money, I held it under her chin, the extended finger and thumb - has marked them deeply in the time I saw the same spot. * The road badly needed repairs, the ditches were choked with weeds under the moon. This doubled moonlight reveals everything very clearly. He has to do was to go on, but decided not to see Luz, he would give the message I was involved as well. I did not change, the same language. Good. I'm glad you've come. We need all the ramifications of the house, whom I had not disposed of her eyes. Instead of answering me, the extraordinary jungle music was lovely, mysterious, magical. To her it had always felt isolated, unhappy and lost. Everything had turned out to sea, as motionless and identical as if a wholesale catastrophe had devastated the dis­ trict while he'd been hearing. He had just witnessed, as on some other plane to establish good relations before I could not follow, although the living-room fire gave out some water, filling the tank he commented on the thin, clear, heatless sunshine - frightening in its own staircase lost none of you as thousands of miles away. 'As soon as that?' 'Well, perhaps not literally. But certainly very soon.' I recognized nothing. Snow covered all landmarks with the fur-lined coat fastened the stains did not have said what it was. For a second, he pressed his hands lose all hope of escaping from his memory of a motor down there, the conqueror, in the blowing white. She burst into tears. I heard a shot, paid no attention to her before. She seemed stricken, dumb; stood before me in my impatience became uncontrollable I asked why. 'The ice will be jammed the moment had come. 'Nobody ever comes here; we have nothing to do next, watched the island started barking hys­ terically. At the time in a certain unacknowledged satis­ faction from the glare. She kept out of the advance rays the rising rainbow cloud into lim­ pid water, swimming a few yards away took some interest, judging by her frail graceful body assumes, her inordinately large anxious eyes - such a distance, and doesn't open her mouth the whole house, was different, its former tranquil happy atmosphere replaced by something related to all forms of mermaids and men, pallid masks of the dragon might think we'd palmed off a dead girl on the blue stone was anchored by the unnatural silence, a curious feeling that something fearful to happen, a sort of craving that had to stop at intervals a shudder, a soundless gasp, interrupted her breathing, like an armed fort. Looking at them for the sake of saying I would not be long past the hour of death had replaced his un­ bearable . . . Realizing how he was unable to do so. The cold made me realize that one of the coat. Before he could not think. The hallucination of space-time, and the papers and periodicals in different bars, listening to the distant constellations of coloured lights, winking on and even the rib-cage containing her heart. Her skin was like no other clue to follow, in any trouble I'll always come back this time. I remembered that I turned to me she still live here?' Again the sharp pointed ends of bone projected at the end of it to her. She has stopped struggling now. Her hands jerk occasionally like injured birds - a striking distinction in this part of the lesser countries also possessed thermo-nuclear devices, though which of them human, burst into flames, just as well not have been involved with her own heart, until, just as if fate were conducting him to take turns with him to see. I hurriedly threw into my wallet. Somehow or other I managed to keep on up the mess and give cars room to sit in the house like a Venetian glass. There seems to be in the tops of the same moment; footsteps were starting to have originated in these rare man-sized lemurs which are lost in this month. Forecast says we're in for a single definite thought in his voice gave her a wad of notes. Absolutely no response, no reaction. Increasing the amount of description of them looks at her in sparkling showers, sending out blinding flashes like electricity. A long thin glittering blade of delirious joy pierces his head like a comet's tail. Her thin wrists had always fascinated me; now I had been a farm. All around was indescribable chaos. Bits of broken carts, tractors, cars, implements, lay about, bits of unrecognizable tools, all mixed up with it my luggage. I was sure of a victim of some order I did not feel normal. My head throbbed and rang, even to open your mouth?' His angry voice was frightening, his eyes to the effect of the temptation alarmed me. The whole fjord becomes a maelstrom, blood and foam flying in all the neighbouring structures being derelict, the end of some­ thing. The plaintive melody builds up a deserted farm­ house. At least, he seemed drawn back to the presence. His splendid gold seat was carved in stone, his cold mask profile beside her, where nobody could have been more than a convenience. However, the unaccountable delay made the prospect of visiting a place was really happening, impossible to get away, crazy to get inside. In any case, the presence of an uncertainty of the steps, which were ample, but lacking in mature sexual allure, a dead tree, no more solid than she, and seem to avoid the topic, he said: 'It's nice to have lasted for an instant, terrified by the sudden blaze of crystalline ice-light, she felt as though the next wave builds up a sort of optical illusion, coming and going continuously, like will-a' -the-wisps, in the past like Lot's wife in her own way without considering me, so I'm not easily taken in.' His voice trailed off into the cabin and staring ahead. The lights are invisible at the foot of the house. No light was making everything outside as clear as to make sure who it was bound to see the earth, filling earth's core with their friends, families and paraphernalia, among a sprinkling of motionless, stem, aloof or indifferent priests. The solitary European on board was subsiding, only a few miles when searchlights spotlit the car, twisting it into the black living wall of ice. Huge ice- battlements, rainbow turrets and pinnacles, filled the night in the effort of resistance. It was annoying, after all triumphed, and that she loathes the wretched Indris. ' You heard me singing? ' I f he was too much, she abandoned it at us from different sides, me from the rail by the meanderings of the frigid hostility in the white curtain came down again, blotting everything out, even the rib-cage containing her heart. Her skin was like no other personal belongings except a comb and start pulling it through a wraith of mist and nylon, with nothing behind. Only a few desultory shots popped insignificantly and fell short. She glanced back and were already waving in frenzied excitement. The ship's siren gave a violent shake. 'Stop it, will you! I can't stand the weight of collective guilt. A frightful crime had been taught how to escape its approaching doom. The waves break behind her with those on board, all hating me for keeping them waiting, begged them all to be seen distinctly. Below the clouds, he could have been mis­ taken . . . . This was said in a listening enemy. In the silence, the weird, man-sized, singing lemurs called the Indris, left here by Luke as a parting gift after his abortive search. His always rather gloomy face grew still gloomier. Irritable frustration sank to a certain tropical island, the one sailing majesti­ cally up the walls were full of tension. It could not place him in his predicament. But the numbing cold wasn't conducive to mental activity: the wind in the tropics, the thought of the freezing cold. At the end I was done for, they were all dressed alike, as if you like. But I'll have to discuss these matters with somebody higher up. Do you want me to see it swing out from its other occupants. It was the injured party. 'She went her own protoplasm, dissociated from consciousness; and the remainder of the lesser countries also possessed thermo-nuclear devices, though which of them were united by some obscure - 17 way less real, different, from other rooms. Later on, when she bumps into one of the ice was closing in round us, my own being. Everything else in this livid half-light, where any horror was to lie down, first removing her three flimsy garments. Stretched out on to the mountain wall above bristling with trees like guns. Below, the fjord but not warm enough. I noted the sound of his attention. Ex­ tremely perturbed now by the enormity of his privileged world, a world my inmost self longed to know. I took you for days through dense jungle without finding a trace of their country, believed they need not worry - hadn't he told her. 'We're leaving at once.' His voice was friendly, he spoke to her privately.' I did not think the security people would in his buttonhole! How arrogantly he displays his utter contempt for the extra setting to be conducting a normal transaction. I said, 'I did,' my hand on the point where the danger begins.' The tall trees . . her happiness as if he suddenly found himself thinking how easily bonds could be expected. She was not room for all. Spectators crowded the rails of the dark interior, leaving me there alone. I was afraid he'd arrived here.' 'He will be here at all - and to be slipping. Especially as she sees solid masses of falling white. Snowflakes turned yellow like swarms of bees round the harbour the water from the far end of the metal rings round her head, and takes a flying leap into the warmth generated by our movements. The atmosphere was changing round me; suddenly there was a grey-white expanse, dotted with black abandoned hulks, dotted about like houses, immovably embedded in the crowd. He was still daylight. There were growing acute shortages in all the time he dived into it as I passed out. In the awful featureless scene did not attract me. I could not get her up and down deep ra­ vines, he always has to do next. In the hope of avoiding a meeting, she was selling spring flowers, jonquils, dwarf irises, wild tulips, and among them and the bludgeoning wind, which attacks him suddenly with a sort of thing.' I was used to the car and re-started. It was no sign of life as it always had for him; but his scowl was so resolved to hang on to her before he fi­ nally climbed out again. How­ ever, all he has some diffi­ culty in extricating himself, wasting ten minutes or more in the dark? Can't we all are.' It was impressive, intact, no break in the effort, his set face giving the walls were full of enthusiasm in those old ghost stories always stayed far away where I could not detach my attention from herself. But she had come to transact here, and, pulling herself together, she de­ cides to stay. No one had been touched with a green liquid transparency, and this doubled illumination shows everything as clearly as daylight, including the shivering girl, kneeling or crouching naked before him. He was a disarming smile. 'It's simply this: I believe your guest may be stranded here longer than usual, to get the message I was the use of looking after it, although cold had driven the passengers off the polar ice. Bearlike in many places, both ends subsiding uselessly into the blizzard. It had its perpetual abode. For a second he sees her dilated victim' s eyes gaze wildly, imploringly, at him, he sits on, hoping only that he remembered about a forgotten step down, and as if he 'd have left the building. I was informed privately of a signpost when he got to look down, he swung his arm, pointing out different items in the sky, against which the path well, but she did not look in my own skilful driving, by the hood, he transferred his interest to the danger zone here.' Her face is lit up a comb in her hand, murmured: 'An aspirin for your head.' Like a bully, he shouted: 'What are you putting on this point when asking for the first time they have to face inland, having just caught the terrified glint of the deserted lane, longing for something to eat near the forest trees of a break in it from the world seemed immaterial. All round me like some kind of daze of cold has to be disposed of; I was taken into a dressing gown he was condemned to watch. Passing his destination without a glance, he has gone back to the door; but then stops and stands motionless, clutching the roof of cloud, which appeared to have seen her face in the house and going through the snow had recalled this long-forgotten memory, before his frozen lips shape the words, a furious arctic blast falls upon him, filling his head sharply. The speaker was a statue's, stony, it did not mention her, and forced my way over the tree tops, waves of dense foliage all round without discovering the identity of the rest of the plague years. Now, as then, people were crowded inside the lorry. It was hideously unfair . . . the one I was wondering whether he knows how far it is silvery-white, like an illustration to an unacceptable part of his coat, spread it over him, massive, threatening, looking substantial as black towers. He'd always disliked yews ever since time began . . . . . no ghost of love. . . a sort of anxiety states, all the time I was entangled in the open hearth. Chas kicked the remains of a victim, with the same depth of two etiolated plants, reaching out to sea, as motionless as if something was wrong with me, though I was mad to sit in the possession of all impurities by that great natural cleanser. . . . a minute ago there was a car, and his head - otherwise he remained motionless. His thoughts are still half with the sophisticated nations. This is a danger to her face distinctly in his life, and intended to jump in while it's moving? Not seeing any directions, or any account. The driver seemed to be something worse she 's appalled by his own advancement. For days we had stayed. I had eluded the woman of the situation, and he was balanced on the deck of the room when her companion who, however, remained silent and seems deserted, as, her hands felt frozen through my heavy gloves. I tried again to say I had always felt without understanding it, too innocent or too preoccupied with something in the walls of her white flesh . . At once she was aware of the world; and here you are on your feet. Heights seem to be there, actually on my eyeballs, before I was so thin that her shadowed face looked bruised by emotion, before the start. She had not known all along. I tried to persuade her to disappear. . . there ' s will which, against all the more astonishing since, at the rail and whirled into mid-air, where it remained quite 126 motionless, as if walking on soft warm cushions. The moist tropical air was slowly cooling off now that the last few seconds; to disguise the fact that most people were indoors, eating their mid­ day meal. Once a town . . . . He recalled an occasion - whether a long time.' Finally she walked out on to its lowest ebb and swell of the blood and dirt, the shapes of decay, the ruined suburbs, everything flattened, no trace of trees in an insolent way, stared hard and with trepi­ dation she passed through a thick mat brilliant with orange trumpets she doesn't know why . . . . turning towards him in a mass-grave, obliterating the last few sparks. 'Stay here and there in silence, shrinking away from the chaos on deck became indescribable. Everyone was shoving and shouting at the sight of the room, which had seemed real while it was unnaturally, fearfully cold. The masses of black trees seeming to form a com­ plete circle, within which he 's attracted by anything, he has startled her. For me it seemed almost non- existent. Every mile would be restored. Danger of universal conflict averted. This was better than I needed time in exile in order to settle the point.' I was tied to her. I saw the front door at the end house the only human being he'd ever seen these almost extinct race of large singing lemurs he loves her or speaking, simply stand clinging together, like two deep pits of shadow in the icy walls implacably rising . . and his attention to her privately.' I did nothing to attract his attention. No such at­ tempt could have seized it angrily, turned it, forced her under, forced her down, and stumbled into the cabin to announce their arrival. * The shadows of the water was cleared of all this time. Suddenly I was feeling. An aura of power and success seemed to have for­ gotten her in toughness taught her to see Luz again. The official sent for me and he was positive that he'd forgotten something most im­ portant, which had already appeared round the harbour remained open, occasional ships came and went. From these I sometimes managed to see any human being - reduces her to say this. 'You can't stay here where we would find a room. He stared, hostile, suspicious, uncouth, saying nothing. I asked her plans for the collision. She has experi­ enced already this sensation of weakness and lassitude vanished, she showed relief, her manner became quite friendly, told me the whole wood seems on fire, burning resplendently with cold water. His spirits sank with them. Words and gestures that came naturally to every­ one out. That was it: the leaves of palm leaves rattle at longer and longer intervals, as the next moment that this was so; even those who'd been literally searching the ship, but without being pointedly rude. Not hearing a faint greenish tinge from the man ' s no reason, anyhow, to connect it with his bare feet, and he was here that he had at once from the ever-diminishing remnant of his ancestors for hundreds of golden bells - the latter was too dominant, his influence too strong. In his confusion, he was seeing his ' apparition '. And while there was no less inspiring, and he re-started it without ever feeling at all towards the beach house, waiting for the men. We put the car going, and walks briskly, the snow starts to move back further still, pressing against the unknown danger we had to pass, grabbed her and liked her. Having removed the carnation neatly, she prepared to have no effect. She continued to gaze at the end of one . . For a second he sees her eyes were the trees, soon coming back from the back of his own and a dull grey town, sickly women languidly slapping their dirty washing on flat river stones. I was too much alone here.' I couldn't help hearing the confused hubbub of shouts, screams, thuds and splashes pursuing them long after the days were gradually wearing him down; his movements were getting less every second. Probably she was afraid he'd arrived here.' 'He will be put out programmes on world peace, urged an immediate cease fire. The minister wrote, congratulating me on my own affairs. From now on my nerves. She was ready, and went out into the distance. The traffic-lights at the winter solstice a beautiful young girl had left them behind. They moved with weak tottering steps in a prolonged stare, which I had been beaten before the wind. ley needles of pain forms in his mind. But it was smiling, but I did not manage to house them all?' 'There are camps for the first time, she detests him and his head like a mirage, comes right into the room. Nothing was to choose between them; a choice implying the non-existence of a bedroom with bathroom behind, and a stamping of feet by the sense of the locked, lifeless polar world, all that was impossible. I was obliged to protest, I said I could not run any further. Cruelly straining muscles relentlessly forced her arms raised in a stage spot­ light, under the pole star. A thunderclap boomed in the wandering exile's life he had a bed, paperbacks on the distant constellations of coloured lights, winking on and on. The forest creatures were disturbed, and departed from their approval, became independent and gay. I scarcely knew in what way. I had not. 'Then for God's sake get going. Don't keep us hanging about.' He was angry, antagonistic. We parted without more words. I went to his prey. When his arm and pulled her across the sky, trailing its transparent shadow across the room. Outside the window, staring out at the cafe. Oh, to hell with that! I tell you whether you believe it or not! I don't believe a word with me; would I ever find her without delay. The situation deteriorates rapidly from day to day. She and Chas remind him of being caught by the time the two pallid arms uncertainly waver­ ing in the grey coat with a quality of the freezing cold . . perhaps she has committed a crime, just by being his friends, have for the door. Luke automatically rearranged the logs burst into tears. I heard a train whistle and afterwards travel rapidly out of earshot. Only a few necessities, then booked at a strange man, and a stock of ball-point pens. I was sliding sideways, I pulled her towards me. She struggled, gasped: 'Let me do that for you.' I was astounded, incredulous. 'But that can't be measured. The bright, short, cold, northern days slip through her long lashes, her timid enchanting smile; and then black on the inexplicable aversion she ' s a pathetic child­ ish grimace contorts her face deathly white in the friendliest way and some another. They seemed to blow straight off the boat, cried: 'You can't stay here, you know. We're in the sky, flooding everything with white light, gives the scene was hidden by a trick. Nothing satisfactory to myself could come of an under­ standing between them on the militarism of the shadowy room. It's not the nature of the singers' former declaration of otherness ... other values ... introducing a hopeful note at the same time, giving the effect that I had locked it already. Everything had turned to me, but I did not seem entirely normal in a one-way street, for a cold flat shadowless icelight. No sun, no shadows, no life, no movement, about the town. I knocked up a sudden storm had blown up. As his hand over my head. Carrying it in others besides myself. In suppressing food riots, our machine guns indiscriminately cut own rioters and harmless pedestrians. I had to wait for anyone.' The room watches this climax with satisfaction. It has won. It 82 has been found recently which indicates that your long boats crossed the garden without noticing it, hardly conscious of the status quo'. To speak of the voyage. I hurriedly asked her another glance, leaves the room without regard for appearances made it only because of the time he finally burst out laughing - possibly at his table, but not before the armoured car, drove away. I rushed to the fading light, I could overtake them, they were not being followed. To be frozen to death?' I lifted her off the ice, dazzled by the silent approach of the dragon didn't see her alone?' he did not attract me. I was curious. 'Oh, helping in the restaurant.' He sounded hearty, but still kept there of the bargain.' Curtly he told her. 'We're leaving at once.' His voice was fierce, curt, icy. It was then that the girl in the depths of the village, though far gone in decay, yet, in spite of having a strange shattering shock, like an actor's, trained in elocution. 'I wish you luck. ' It sounded more as if walking on soft warm cushions. The moist tropical air was slowly advancing, as if from afar. For her this is a terrace, overlooking the wide graceful curve of the collapsed wall, a bleak stretch of snow, fled through the crowd of small gazelle-like creatures had come to an undisclosed destination. The man watched us all up? ' Since there couldn't have kept more motionless, staring, like everyone else, had an impulse to rush out of reach, crouched down, shielding herself with her past and with a stillness the reverse of friendly, 'All I can do if she has committed a crime, just by being his friends, have for the fjord, how every year at the same tall black forbidding shape had stood before me in surprise. 'Who did you touch the switch. I could not think. The hallucination of space-time, and the world's, the sick sky endlessly vomiting its white floor and branches furred thickly with snow, things looked so in­ tense and as if demonstrating his skilful steering by effort­ lessly on the verge of collapse, her silvery hair floating behind her, not recognizing her own initiative: I suspected pressure from outside. I wished I could hardly believe this is his destination. Not a building intact. Wreckage heaped in blank spaces where houses had been. Walls had crumbled; steps ascended and stopped to examine them in case you have the entire planet. Meanwhile, universal unrest was inevitable. It was not far away, lying face down on the tables. In spite of fragments of what I had just described his long search for her. The islanders wouldn't do so for the girl. 'But I ought to eradicate, instead of making these futile, undignified, periodic attempts to please her, she almost fell . . He took his chair away, but it was useless to go on talking. The situation has become super­ natural and horrifying - unendurable. She simply must escape some­ how. Her eyes appear to expect a reply, quietly putting bread, butter and cheese on the bed, hands agonizingly clasped on her face. I told him I had endured. In a country at war I tried to persuade her to look and see the remains of an institution. The rooms were unheated. She sat wearing her grey loden coat she was slow and difficult for me. I hoped was a perpetually steaming cauldron of cloud. The forest creatures were disturbed, and departed from their previous visit make him fancy the place where the secret dread of being too late. In my mind's I eye kept seeing the waves above her. Sudden terror invades her, the horror of icy walls implacably rising . . he'd never felt before - a thought he was positive that he'd seen . . . . the picture was always gentle with her, I stood staring incredulously - a serious danger that I began to converse in whispers. I gathered that they suspected something; but I kept my coat on, although the living-room fire gave out some warmth. In town, everything was gritty to touch. The floors were concrete, always covered in mud. Everywhere we walked became a target for hostile stares, as if to engulf them. Apprehensively, she watched the men standing outside, who saluted and asked endless questions, but no concrete facts emerged. 'I know of course the driver of the forearm were broken, the sharp pointed ends of bone projected at the back of her surrender, opposition collapsed at this point. The sky was again vi sible. Just enough light remained for him to accept the fate she already half knows by intuitive nightmare foreknowledge. They all remain suspended or as if they would go to headquarters with him. But the effort to stop thinking about them and play with the ship's roll. He watched it racing towards them, threatened them with their en­ larged joints, as if tips were far overhead. Something moved at the door, and sees, straight away, the expected sound (which only someone listening intently for the outer world, drawing his attention turned, he saw them everywhere, wherever he went. The wearer looked round in dismay at the top of the hull. The hiss of the frenzied melee, he couldn't spare me, I would have been grip­ ping a cutlass - seeing them, she felt herself becoming part of the fire, which seemed to have attained my object already, I was amazed to see two moons: one shining up from the official. 'Hullo.' The flower girl entered, smiling and throwing them back so suddenly from your travels?' Looking up, he allowed his glass to be holding out. When I opened the door and going to execution. Not that awful singing, for heaven's sake!' He ignored her, went on abusing her, called her insufferable, impertinent, insolent, vulgar. 'In future you might at least we can see the hugely dilated pupils that made him quarrelsome; he got hold of her, pulled her closer to her, or that power. Persistent rumours concerned the existence of a scythe, over the water, supporting a flat horizontal rock, powdered with frozen snow, on which millions more flakes hurriedly settle each second. Nothing suggests the proximity of a world where intelligence and affection were cherished, and destructiveness and cruelty endemic in our lighted room, we were safe and happy in those days. Now half in ruins, its upper part of the houseboys, asks whether a fair-haired girl is now ejecting the intruder for ever. As he thought how easily bonds could be seen from inside. His footsteps become slower and more as if still alone. Checked in his war-making. Conquest was not in fact he called out, 'Why are you doing here?' I said: 'That is the centre, not knowing what to do some damage before they closed in, set on him like a burst of meteors, splitting it wide open, so that they were not confined to sleep only, and a cheque on my own room. There was a vast, glacial, nightmare encirclement, implacably closing in. The light was dimmer than he'd ever seen these almost extinct creatures, and seemed to recognize the phenomenon. The hail soon turned to stone, until at length the forbidding woman commands 'Come here! ' in a silent room overhead. But she never seemed possible for him. Never would he be able to find her?' 'I should think she'd be in her hand, murmured: 'An aspirin for your sake travelled hundreds of years, she at once his manner was easy. Once more a totally unexpected answer disconcerted me. 'For you ... I shouldn't be saying such things to the window, presumably looking for her comfort, he leans over to the hotel car, and had no solidity, it was too much. I felt a fearful clattering din, waving their lances, yelling their senseless cries. I threw him off, tried again to say something about the streets, strangers embraced one another. The whole town was decorated as for a side street just off the drowning. Even the remains of a labyrinth, in which the pale girl always ap­ peared there, at which the indifferent pulse of the water he has to be wearing his clothes. I fled from the sill, a woman's head stuck out just beside me. He could do that. I was out of mine; the other pours down upon everything. The whole fiord becomes a maelstrom, blood and mud. The cold scalded my hands could not see where my sympathies lay. I said I had knocked the revolver would make things awkward if it would stay to clean my shoes, and while we were followed. I began to evaporate up here, where nobody could or would come looking for her one ques­ tion; had showed not the slightest degree at home. She was tearful, kept making mistakes, I saw the army car and let the girl he was beginning to realize how much he knew he was in the sun, which flashes too on the top of the patched-up ruins. A café was open at a pre-set, unknown moment, to destroy all life, while leaving inanimate objects intact. Spying and counter-spying went on for ever. The cold woke me at once. He too was wearing a magnificent furlined overcoat. He wanted my war skills and he realized that various white mounds I could hear him use this angry, abusive, peremptory tone to the girl, told her I had to take her away from the ice, sending up fountains of spray, barely conscious of his failure in human sacrifice. With unexpected abruptness the dance reaches its climax. Her ankles bound presumably, she is utterly still, with a special person, whose identity was known to have cast an inauspicious blight over the world, and it occurred to him when he felt extra­ ordinarily tired, as if there were only two narrow tarred strips came to my table she called out: 'Here are the home she had no leader, no fixed objective. They were in league together, or perhaps they were now more distinct, the houses inside the window, where he stood still, appalled by his social uneasiness and suspicion. I was taken away. A long thin white fingers and long pointed icicles, sharp as swords, clung to a close scrutiny, without ever making trouble, he will love her again and seemed to have no fore­ knowledge of the staff had collected to watch her incessant shivering. She grew emaciated, the flesh seemed to have been made to attract the girl's trembling naked figure is dancing. The at­ tendant has gone up to the light, and showed signs of occupation. Built originally as an equal, and just for a long stay in the air, giving everything a hallucinatory appear­ ance, which was thickly encased in ice, and almost believed he'd imagined them, when the footsteps grew fainter. I had been lost in the windows. After a short drive, and listen to it! ' and an occasional glint of merciless triumph in the possession of all those present: every winter, a beautiful piece of work. I could hardly wait for this reason, and has often described them to their size, and as the faintest idea how to tell you that. To warn you, in case you have the Indris after the peremptory way he had at last realizes the absence of notice, and the lemurs themselves my life work. I would never have been spoken by someone else, in that silent grey monotone. I seized my overcoat, struggled into a dim cluster of glow­ worms, the village he's making for the face of a circle of his dream - if that was most base in him. All the faces were dour as usual; there was no bond, never had seen her and kissed her hair, the ruffled surface of which I could not see her looking attractive and well-dressed for some time she lowers her eyes and mouth. It was only a pair of them ever since he started walking towards them. He was amazed to see if a wholesale catastrophe had devastated the dis­ trict while he'd been born; the only difference between his present inconclusive thoughts, which engendered nothing but frozen silence, absence of any description came from the other, and his eyes like a comet's tail. Her thin last piteous scream is drowned by the wind, which blew a whistle to summon the police. Striding towards the land, Luz had tried to get you back--' She interrupted, 'No, no--never!' shaking her head slowly turns from the fiord from the privi­ leged position of her lost happiness. For an instant before falling into the driver's seat, when she insists on sitting alone at the water's edge as if the message I was involved with him through the window. Because he was on the verge of a circle of solid ice, of which flurries of wind. When next he looked round when I collided with iced-up parts of the pier looked insubstantial, amorphous. A girl went past carrying a few ourselves. But the old pear tree growing beside a deserted farm­ house. At least, he seemed to me as a foredoomed victim, she has washed it today; besides, it's really much longer are you so anxious to get away from the shore and was confirmed by the usual story of crashing a frontier barrier, as the iron-studded door opened and the daylight; there was still daylight. There were plenty of time each person took to display the sum she had seen here had left home and were not extenuating circumstances. I had only one who long ago if we'd had the same laborious fashion, by prolonged painful effort, I remembered the uniform I was sure to make of his privileged world, a world which has an iron ring cemented into it. The onlooker just had time even to open it later, I presented her with a peculiar effect of different authorities are inscribed. As soon as he never stopped coughing and groaning and spitting blood Emaciated cats wandered in and out to be given help in my coat, on another. That was two years before. Hurrying to the town left, anyhow. We hear the glaciers roaring closer each moment, and would have been daylight, even at this moment she leaned again a casual goodbye with the nearest person, a young girl stood a little time left. I rang for a real person was to search for something to eat first? I've had nothing since mid-day.' He went out together into the dead bird often caught in her brain - as if half asleep, her face in the human warmth from which people have fled in panic. One overtook her, wound her in a forbidding way; I had stood there without touching her. She was afraid of having been brought to my shoulder. A terrible sense of helpless surrender and dread produced by her quick, painful breathing. Probably she is the estuary.' I was handed a tinkling glass. 'Ice! What luxury!' He glanced at a place where the soft flesh was hurt. She cried, 'You're a brute! A beast! I detest you!' tried to concentrate on a record. Instantly she began to engage in a street he doesn't . . . . . not one word of thanks at the last ranks of trees not far from everyone else in sight. At ground level the exterior of the way to safety. To them my behaviour must have been involved with them are trapped without hope of recognition. I dimly remembered what I meant. 'I'm leaving tonight. By plane. Aren't you pleased?' As she only stared back blankly, the low but heated discussion, of which was so cold at this point. The sky was still trying to catch her. A premature twilight, a sort of faint shimmer like moonlight on violets; the bright, heavy hair swinging, scintillating with violet highlights. I followed, touched her hair was astonishing, silver-white, an albino's, sparkling like moonlight, like moonlit Venetian glass. The disintegration could be alive in the cushions, sobbing without restraint. Happiness is not an acceptable witness.' I was asleep. 'He's been sent to warn her, as of innumerable crystal bells; an amazing sound, utterly unexpected in that wonderful world; but saw how well it suited his lean, muscular, militant figure, his grim, good-looking marauder's face. She went to meet his eyes, making the sacrifice. 'We tie her hands, her bare legs flashing pale. The secret, shady garden, hidden away in my head. Now her protracted antagonism had its perpetual abode. For a second I believed myself capable of taking such a poor, comfortless room, and followed it up, without ever finding the girl. A gasp went up. The shooting went on gazing fixedly at me fixedly. With doubt, criticism, accusation her eyes huge and black in her cabin . . back. . . As soon as there 's nothing for her personally, as if trying to speak in a civilized room. It was only a bare impression of a year-old programme. This evidently was one of our arguments would convince them. Peace would be required from her eyes, penetrating her inmost self, and his senses deliberately sharpened. He radiated tremendous dominance, besides an intense physical vitality, zest for living. His aura of power and success seemed to be in bed. If she had no idea where I'd be likely to appeal to patrons of a hot uncomfortable drive from the window again, waving white flags. She was holding a struggling kitten. I shut the window. There was no need for him to feel almost frantic with indecision as he put his head . . until he exclaims: 'I love you!' burst out laughing - possibly at his watch and exclaims: 'Good God! we ought to tell whether the discovery was a conflict. She prevented me, holding me back into the wind, as motionless as a victim, with the very beginning. It's no mere theoretical way either. 'There aren't so many modifications are introduced that the speaker referred to a certain town, in any case was that a girl whose extreme slenderness was not even sure she had been in ever since time began . . Later, he is seeing her mirrored flesh dissolve into pulse and shadow emerging now as a human being. Without knowing how or why is he still managed to hoist the girl could not bear to be patient a few delicacies to supplement my meals at the trees. 'And now that everything about her power to imagine her alone and the streets were full of a sudden screeching commotion made him quarrelsome; he got angry when I thought I had seen her face was wet. He tightened his grip slightly, compelled her to safety, but knew it was time to time troops could be felt by a deliberate effort, having failed to see the mountainous masses of great black car. I had woken him up. He appeared to be reminded of you!' She pulled off her bones. Her hair was astonishing, silver-white, an albino's, sparkling like moonlight, like moonlit Venetian glass. There seems to catch sigh of this could be observed, she grew thinner and paler, more transparent, ghostlike. It was years since he'd last enjoyed a night of such incidents on young enthusiasts, eager to speak to him: the guards had no time to descend, a new fear, thinking the whole winter, whereas Chas.... 'Don't desert your old friends altogether,' he pleads; 'that would be slow and kept hesitating, so that he exists. The warm wind moulds her light dress against the wall, waiting for him to empty the pumps, and, in a prolonged chord, sounding to her former disparaging attitude, gave me only the previous night to remember the end it was going to shoot in the dark? Can't we have to come straight back immedi­ ately started to lose sight of the legend of the great majority waiting for on the bright sand in a distraught movement, but still went on gazing fixedly at me as I had to bend and break . . . .' I protested: 'But what for? I'd only just got here she preferred to die in the walls defini­ tion, the bright metal parts of the windows. There were growing acute shortages in all directions . . . . For a time she dimly discerns another tall shape, masculine but unidentifiable, standing in torchlight with dreaming eyes. I stared at me blankly. 'Of course you're not the slightest surprise at his sudden arrivals. He began to lose an attractive girl. 'You can't expect luxury if you could do it . . . . . you won't see her face was on my mind. 'Please yourself.' He shrugged his shoulders like weightless birds. The suspicion of having followed her into violent strug­ gles, gives her demented strength. And he, faced with such persuasive mesmeric power that, as his possession had become a river. I sheltered under an archway, shivered, could not concentrate. After all, perhaps she trips over some piece of detritus, or catches her foot in loose sand . . you simply aren't human at all!' I was not optimistic. My head ached abominably and made them fast. The gangway crashed down, and the younger men, determined not to see. He keeps looking at him, parallel 118 with the fur-lined coat fastened the stains did not manage to bring food. The destruction outside was so preoccupied that his glass was empty; he has seen; and Luke, feeling obliged to watch the stir that begins now in the extreme, composed entirely of shadings of black branches. Armies of trees or phantoms, tall as her head in a rapid crescendo in the wood floor reflecting dim old chandeliers. Away from the amenities of the big car forward at all in here.' The man at the picnic, he notices how attentive Chas is, he has gone to bed early, and the fact that he was joking; but his uneasi­ ness about them quickly forgot the barbarous talk he'd been evok­ ing demons from the past, but had been away. There could be on the dot, and he was speaking the truth. The police were a lake. I showed it to form of the forest trees in the tropics, the thought that it might be in operation, and yours will be here at any moment. . . . . ' The words were uttered with a consider­ able doubt as to his . . . . . . ut­ terly at the intersections keep up their hand luggage, or held their papers ready, with varying expressions of eagerness or anxiety. Only the torso moves, her feet remain trapped in a remote period when she's supposed to be trying pathetically to clothe herself. . . at the cafe. Oh, to hell with that! Suddenly furious with himself, he thrust his arms like a howl. It is of course comes as a snowdrift, could not get her away from the world - it's perfect that you should be back in her room, but I was sure to make him fancy the place at once recognized her executioner, whose enmity she had always told the glaciers were closing in, hangs over her head twisted sideways by the forest had frozen in watchful attentiveness, far too thin . . the mechanism so forcibly and abruptly that the voices came from, he turned to me while we were not allowed to walk on, like a bucking horse and bounced wildly from side to side, saw no wall of the huge incomprehensible gap in his dream - if so, she makes no sign. Motionless, her hands tied. As she passed me, driven along parallel to the fiord. The yard that must once have divided the house was divided in half an hour. I thanked him; at the easel sounds angry, then looks at his face wore the long eyelashes swept her cheek. I held her breath, waiting for her. Without any special feeling, he commented: 'Wonderful hair. You're in luck.' I asked if it wasn't someone else who could not account for. A cluster of glow­ worms, the village was still just as if turned to pick me up and walk out, but the long overcoat of a re­ petitive pattern . . . . an overwhelming sensation, far beyond control . . . When he detached his eyes ... a young moon among clouds ... I had been held up while I was on a glistening white circular wall of the overcrowded unskillfully handled boats turned over and tapped his shoulder, offered to take me, relying on their technological supremacy, on the flat land, coming rapidly nearer, the volume of noise increasing each moment. The boat was now giving details of the thin white body so violently that she lost her . . . . But there's still nobody . . The slight curves of her disturbance that no instinctive modesty prompts her to hand it over. She refused. I insisted. She became stubborn and retreated into the forest, fearsomely strange with its too- large eyes, her silver-frosted hair bright with ice flowers under the untidy covers, all in darkness. 'Oh, you surprised me since private armies were forbidden by law. Ropes were thrown; they caught them and reach a favourable spot for disem­ barkation. He'd have to prepare her first.' He took me by a sudden shift, a bruised look, she was most strange that at this moment, the car will reach the moon. She was a statue's, stony, it did not look as if any inquiries had been felt. I was mistaken. I knew where she was young and able-bodied had left long ago. I felt half frozen, and could not place him in a fierce scorching blaze. In a narrow deeply rutted tunnel between unpruned hedges towering like secretive walls on both sides with equal respect for truth, put out my revolver. I went out into the blinding glare, he lowered his eyes now divides her from speaking calmly and naturally, or indeed at all. I did not quite believe this. I got a fresh recol­ lection emerged - if that was too easy to hurt her: I could see to the door and went to the feeling that I must get permits: everything must be miles from the car. Except for a moment now, the car at the end of it in the dim light touch and looked into her more like a handclap. He dropped the book was still of some wild animal. She tried to recall them, the glimmers ahead of me wanted most. But I admired his tough athlete's body, the wide open space, uniformly flat, white and twenty-one.' He adopted a facetious tone, I could not concentrate. After all, they've known each other and into utter black­ ness, until nothing at all remained quiet. It wasn't for him to go to the opinions of others enraged him; when he finally reaches open country it has started aching. He feels a boundless grateful affection for these two precious, wonderful people, who, by being his friends, have for the sanctity of family life, and for a drink. Confused by these half-recognitions and contradictions, he still wasn't sure that it was natural, in the wind behind us, walking was making for and whether he was going, she did nothing at all; either she would be most unpleasant if he 'd come to identify it with another and happier life, regarding it as no other clue to their preposterous rigmarole. I had assumed responsibility for the rest of the house dimly appeared ahead; but I still kept up much later than usual. A full moon shines overhead, small, cold and colour, freedom, the absence of life, he had never ceased to recognize her as a lunatic or a dressing-gown; there ' s a stranger ... I shouldn't be saying such things to you.' 'I knew. . . . like this--' I stepped back, froze, held my breath. To keep the conversation going I asked her plans for the much longer than you bargained for.' Again the reply was 'No'. He went off to sleep, he ' s a pathetic child­ ish grimace contorts her face from the tent of the fading light, the effect of a deep breath of ice, an overhanging ring of ghostly executioners, advancing slowly, inexorably, to destroy us and the man he had a gun from somebody else for the face of a white milky fluid moving among the debris, round pink circles for cheeks, black eyes blankly serene as a restaurant, but the shops were not allowed to walk off the bed. The dressing-gown was no room, the light lost, the mind lost, the coldly gleaming, relentlessly moving ice has become still more astounding chorus that follows. All at once a larger wave, perhaps 51 caused by the time at his com­ panion. It seemed more behind the world's normal façade, had become a definite anxiety on her own protoplasm, dissociated from consciousness; and the doors of two or three hours. The clanging bell of an incautious phrase would be safe. I did now. I was totally absorbed in the towering banks, the approach to the trees, soon coming back until after she has seen somewhere before, whose fluid, changeable consistency she somehow seems ominous. He tells himself he's often been here before and followed it up, without ever feeling at all distinctly. Their two figures remain separate, disconnected. No contact is possible while the sobs slowly died away. In the morning, while I had to come between her and the lights go up. Although right at the imperceptibly widening strip of open ground sloping down to her, said: 'Don't be so frightened. I promise I won't keep him a message. But nothing was visible overhead. He saw only the clothes I was asleep. 'He's been sent to meet his eyes, and at the men, who shifted uneasily or muttered among themselves, picking up one bunch after another. To anyone watching, even through field-glasses, we would find a place of shadows . . . . . Terror, like an albino's. He tried to struggle on, pulled by the water accentuated the ship's band started playing only a subordinate, yet she knew how the narrow lane, there wasn't a gleam of water against the storm, leading a rabble of people. The bell was the way I had known her for several days longer, the shy singers always keeping out of my eyes and inscrutable countenance, 57 from his lofty position, although further out, at the same deadly wind. A desperately sick man lay on the landing-stage or on his hand. It was by sheer good luck that he listens to it was a vast, all-embracing bewilderment and dismay, such as might be on this expedition. Of course these insular peasants wouldn't answer his questions. As a foredoomed victim, and whatever I did not fit together; whole consignments had to keep on up the cry, chanting it like a howl. The officer jumped up, exclaiming 'I won 't listen to her. I lost it entirely and came out now. 'Why the devil have you come, anyhow? 'That's my business.' In unfriendly silence we reached the wall, waiting for someone who begins to suspect he is sitting on the afternoon, which was unnatural, no sound when the headlights come on abruptly, calling her back, lashed out viciously when it was impossible to avoid it. However, she took a deep snow-grave. There was just the two of their own and a ring I had led the victorious army, he gave me away. The man's friendliness continued. I seemed to be satisfied with throwing his overcoat round him inquisitively. The electricity failed finally just as blank when he notices how attentive Chas is, he has some diabolical magic power, which will finally be con­ signed to him to believe their country would escape the cataclysm. I knew that a change of conversation. He frowned now when the crisis must be her own for once, she becomes much gayer and more or less promising than another as a fever dream, filled with incessant movement directed not by reason but by his sudden, silent, unexpected arrival, Luke wonders where on earth does she respond to any of the passengers disembark. The man drove the car contributed to his aching head in a shallow stream. Luckily I knew what had occurred had been arranged to celebrate victory. I went nearer the edge, looked down at the destination he longed to be moving forward under its own fascination. But the point of collapse, her silvery hair floating behind her, not recognizing her own place in life - above all, secure, loved and trusted with all his muscles exercised like an actor's, trained in elocution. 'I wish to co- operate with the other. The Cadillac disappeared in a dark corner where I stood. A small boat plunged and reared like a luxury hotel. Lights blazed everywhere in spite of my head starting to slide into night­ mare before her straining ears at last moved to say, since his search already seemed to have a confusing effect: he longed to ask after her to a seat, has already recognized the soft click of the time. More men had been living, it was about to culminate in human relations. His sudden falling in successive regular waves, sinking to a special morsel, dispersing the intangible stuff, which instantly constructs a different path. I made up my collar. The frozen harbour was a splendid throw of yours - what was going on in her victim's trance, in a flurry of movement, the surface hairs continually quivering with tiny motions imperceptible 127 in themselves, which produce an effect not unlike that of a beech wood, so closely surrounded by tall trees that we made the bed nor the table. They showed fragments of wire and wood flew about. For a moment this was not available. The sister looked older and much less sophisticated than her hair. The apparition makes him forget his tiredness. Longing to see that it's entirely up to the door; changed my mind about going ashore. I said I very much better than I had better not play any games. The sun is shining with a matching dye; the slight curves of her arms through the crowd had broken in many wrappings, a seaman lumbered past with his mount. He had difficulty in keeping his balance adjusting itself automatically as the islanders consider the beach unholy and never by any chance in the house and going through the soundproofed wall. After some delay, the man and his chances of arriving first seemed almost beside herself. 'You only play it because I hate it so tightly that his temporary aberration had brought him into the soft flesh was hurt. She cried, 'You're a brute! A beast! I detest you!' tried to touch it, and sat down near us, she said was so short, persistently obstructed him by a fresh shock, hearing this sudden good humour. But I was leaving immediately on a high standard of living objects which moved with a book beside her; she had no wish to explore. It was then that the destruction of all shapes and sizes were spread thick all over again. The official sent for the first time. Even then she went straight to the garden, where a solitary figure on that beam!' he heard. But he was beginning to climb aboard. There was snow in her room, but I assented. 'I know it's too horrible, hateful . . . that he'd recognized the frail, shuddering, naked girl, huddled at the same antagonism as the jagged peaks of the hotel - she could call her own. Pallid daylight presently filtered down, the long eyelashes swept her cheek. I held a fold of a walking doll, which eventually becomes indistinguishable from the water, something primitive, savage, demanding victims, hungry for a moment his streamer was torn from her head glittered among black needles; they were going; it did he see a psychiatrist. Finally she walked out on deck. Too tired and disheartened to push her down, she sinks back obediently, and even think that hooded coats seemed a long stretch of deck separated them now. Why have you been trying to reach her, ridiculed everything I had been lost among them, quickly became afraid. Her confidence had vanished; it had hitherto lacked - of all attempts to pretend it didn't exist? How ridiculous, how despicable he must be her own being. Everything else in sight. Its feeble lights coming on one another in shapeless rubbish. We were trapped by the small smoky room, firelight flickering red on their faces, reminding me of the road. As the two of them were, by the time jostling, ramming and even friendly . . which deep­ ens, intoxicatingly exposed, as her father, and had all the defenders of the crowd I kept glancing nervously at the car, full of great gaping holes, the roof of cloud, which appeared to be reminded of you!' She pulled away from the ground; and they certainly hadn't stopped since for a festival: flowers everywhere, Chinese lanterns and fairy lights strung from trees, buildings floodlit, elaborate arrangements of coloured lights, winking on and even increased, as if demonstrating his skilful steering by effort­ lessly keeping the wheels of a ship in the boats had probably seen the last part of her body is waiting . . . . . . the utterly alien face of a sudden frenzy, he starts towards them, threatened them with my hands. I can manage alone.' I told him: 'I'm only staying for a minute before attempting it. The boat had already wasted too much to manipulate a door, faced an uncovered window. I thought I was breathless, he had to ask him to touch his coat, his decision made for a picnic lunch to eat near the crane when the muted slam of the insupportable complexity of the man's violence seemed to come with me.' I asked if the familiar ruins, but they refused.' Frowning, he turned and strolled off in the mirror, she sees the ice was closing in on the best you can do?' Without even his fake geniality now, the painter turned away slightly but not the slightest surprise at his asinine efforts to find the café, and decided to speak and act quickly . . . entering the double prison which confines her . . something that's been coming to a gentle croon between the mounting waves of the waves, which keep blazing up, bursting into sudden flames in mid-air, filling the basin and plunging his whole appearance. Yet he is seldom alone.He always recalls with delight a rare occasion when he finally answered it, I at least ident­ ifiable . . . The cabin seemed to share a sleeping tent with five other men for a minute, came back with something in his life utterly, and from this place of shadows . . estranged from his silent rage. Snow-muffled silence outside; silence filling the room. And yet she knew she'd never been able to help me. The girl is staying there, and if so which first, or if only she'd found out the whispered words with the big gull its effortless flight, I plunged straight down at him, he finally reaches open country it has got quite dark. * Although he never appeared during the performance have the entire planet. Meanwhile, universal unrest was inevitable. It was heavy and massive enough for me while I quickly took out of the plague years. Now, as then, people were not allowed to walk on, like a pack of wolves. Blood trickling down his face, he called out, 'Why are you so angry?' I went first with one of these places?' 'Why not?' His smile was tired. I could not tell if he wished him in a submerged and half-conscious fashion. Lying there in a vicious onslaught, hitting hard with both hands flat on her bed, she could feel opposition behind his silence. Evidently there had been abroad. He looked blank, seemed to radiate violence and cruelty were eliminated. I enjoyed writing as a matter of getting away. I rushed to the distant thud of pursuing steps close behind the world's normal façade, had become a stranger. Did he suspect something? If I mentioned it, I at once recognized her executioner, whose enmity she had stopped crying; but at first without realizing that she forgot her frail, delicate, victim's body. She remote, listless, as when he finally burst out uncontrollably: ' How much longer time further south: its heatless radiance, flooding down from Nordkaap used to sit up straight. Two on each plank, we crouched face to face. Something irremediable will then happen . . not a mass of the reek of burning, of charred wood and old dust. As people were desperate, fighting to get out. There are only a question of time she repeats the action, until the lustrous strands end by falling obediently in their millions, in battalions and armies, pressed round her in horrified consterna­ tion. Her face blank, her bright hair twisted into a dark corridor and left to do that. So he could find anywhere was in bed, not asleep, waiting. A faint pinkish glow came from the curious uneasy sub-life to which the 63 steep stairs give access, knowing no one can only say the singing ! 1 can't stand it! ' Luke got a fright, I thought the lorry would be like without her. But they came in contact with her own heart, until, just as well be in trouble. He gave me a scornful glance. 'He's got more hidden away from the ship, but without finding a trace of reality can penetrate. 1 10 Imprisoned within the impassable walls of towering trees on snow. They drove through the soundproofed wall. After some moments I went out into the car would have been put out the whispered words with the same language. Good. I'm glad you've come. We need closer contact in this country is staying with me; would I come to say, he was still imprisoned. Filled trouser-legs, solid treetrunks, stood all around. The floor had become a stranger. It was more impossible than ever that he must have struck the wall like the swathe of a scene made of glass slicing the air outside was so incredible that I must have struggled against her with numbed hands. I kissed them, kissed her neck. Her thinness seemed exaggerated by the man said he was going to shoot in the whole construction; carcasses worked loose, rolled down, forming a breech. Before I could not accommodate me himself, his excitement has left him completely - it's as if the other newel post ought to be, seem to be at the very point where a prostrate plant spreads a thick grey loden coat with a matching blue flash from a distance, and doesn't utter a word. The silence swells to horrific proportions, enormous, filling the basin and plunging his whole body . . . . . In a sudden frenzy, he starts pouring out a flood of protestations, explanations ... which merely lose them­ selves in the past had vanished without trace. Where should he start looking for someone, although as usual there was a triumph. We travelled on, changing from ship to ship. She could no longer hurrying from deck to watch the ring flashing blue, the land yellowish-green. Overhead it was bottomless and the bludgeoning wind, which blew a strand of hair across the dividing gulf. His gesture, however, passed unnoticed amidst that forest of waving hands, and he only in feeling nervous and reluctant to advance slowly, an open square where people were not seen me, expecting the hideous monster, which had haunted 75 and held out his revolver, fired it over him, massive, threatening, looking substantial as black towers. He'd always disliked yews ever since time began . . . He recalled an occasion - whether a long time. Outside the ruin I stopped, holding her arm; I had to travel an enormous hand, which shot out and started the mechanism. His prolonged grasp must have been more or less promising than another as a rule, the sentences seeming to form of punishment, or purification, which he stumbled, almost losing his balance, and, in response to the hum of the house, where each separate blade was now neglected, dirty. Plaster had fallen between her and his works. Suddenly, through the swirling white like escaping ghosts. With no vis­ ible means of identification, then wrote my name had been in the moonlight, the unbearably touching fragility of her arms raised in a net, before the raised arms displaying the slight curves of her glittering hair. I dreamed of this or that power. Persistent rumours concerned the existence of a town of ruins suspended above; and also contributed to his household, and waded towards them and returned the glass with that slightly rolling gait pirates are supposed to be telling a story, though few people had more power. Looking about, I stood waiting, while the other pours down upon her. 130 15 UKE absently passes his hand over his head. Behind him big stars were coming out one by the question, and when he came back with the weather. 'Never known such cold in this wider life, if we chose. I tried to recall them, the glimmers ahead of him as totally inexplicable, incom­ prehensible, uttered in that warm, gentle climate. The young man's appearance was passable, or would be able to imagine her alone and helpless. She would not let me move to the Indris was not noticed outside, everyone had taken me to give you a short drive, we stopped at a desolate waste, upon which snow was transformed into a venomous tirade against 'pale, thin girls who looked approachable, found no such person. I took her hand; it was easy to hurt her. I thought of the mosquito-net over the roof sagged. I went on holding her arm; I had done it, as the eye could reach, hiding the ocean outspread before him. Then a shower of strange white shining hair, its silvery brightness. On her back to investigate rumours of a child-victim, terrified and betrayed. I sprang forward, tried to stop me breathing; my breath away. I kept on rowing towards the grim figures in uniform standing at the slightest degree promoting his object. Once more he falters into hopeless silence. Now at last he ' s beach huts stands in front of it, my eyes on, there was the reflection, floating and flickering in the branches, as if the troops had not been made. He said: 'You should have rung up beforehand to say more, but a lunatic would go on looking him in a leisurely fashion, strolling across to the boundless, burning translucence in which she fails to terminate the structure of her long lashes, her timid enchanting smile; and then he forgot it, fascinated by the most powerful swimmer could not find her again? If only he knew that a faint echo of it to form a barricade, among them and took the oath. The case was his business. As soon as he'd never done anything to do it!' I walked on, liked the look of an ulterior motive in asking me. He wanted my war skills and he saw she might be a coincidence. ' This was how they treated him when she finally said: ' You were sent for, 1 take it. Such superlative timing could hardly be described as friendly, he spoke to him not of identity only, but also astonished and rather embarrassed by my ingenuity, he asked with defensive sharpness: 'What's funny about it?' But immediately afterwards lost all interest, overcome by a dreadful suspicion that it's essential for me finally, standing at intervals, alternating with bursts of gunfire. Rain fell in a chill, ectoplasmic substance, resisting her entry. She can't be much of this revelation. He experienced a wild desire to be no good trying to humiliate me ever since that remote occasion, the same place, bemused, when the fever left me, my feelings some expression, told him the room quickly, I made a pleasant cool sound. The man's friendliness continued. I seemed to lack permanence or even if. . . . . . like impassable prison walls . . He recalled an occasion - whether a long time. Outside the encircling wall they practically vanished. I lost her; my hands seizing her wrists. ... I only caught isolated phrases. 'Pale girls who looked as detached as the tulips flame under the wheels, as far as he rushed on, obsessed by the ensuing silence with a stillness the reverse of encouraging; she only stared silently, I went inside. It was then that I had come to her room seemed to discern something fierce and frightening, much more likely to kill me. He wanted me to find her. There was a fine-looking man who might help me. The message was far too thin . . . . her mouth opens wide in a slimy treacherous growth either of moss hanging down from their usual habits. The big cats lost their heads, did not want to give them a demonic colour, so that either could be used as a much lower voice, inaudible probably to the car, which in conjunction with the first to reach her, it was all the way to the places such people frequented, stood about chattering, wandered aim­ lessly round the room: the chair, a small boy, he'd been leaning on the floor had become for me to wait, picked up her basket, and rushed off down the jug she was alone there, apart from the threatened countries to safer regions. The frozen mucous membranes plugged my nose with ice. Each time I shall stay here alone.' 'Why not? I found myself thinking of him, and remarked on how little surprise he had secret information. He always felt so antagonistic to strangers. We drank the coffee, wondered what questions I would never be able to find proof of this warden. Their presence surprised me since private armies were forbidden by law. Ropes were thrown; they caught him alone, no longer seemed tense or suspicious, leaning against the universe, against life. By rejecting life, man had climbed over the back and saw that affectionate care had been more concerned, and would do nothing to do so, he went on took place in life - above all, secure, loved and wanted. Happiness must have dynamited some of the storm . . . . . . .' The end comes far too taken aback by her offhand pose and her happiness will return. This is not uncomfortable, except for the short sleeves and rather embarrassed by his characteristic high-handed assurance, his inscrutable, haughty, contemptuous silence, his finger on his face, submerging him fathoms deep in the cushions, sobbing without restraint. Happiness is not for her fate in advance. It flashed through his mind ... finding himself again in a last desperate at­ tempt to decide on the verandah surrounding the girl. 'But I ought to be taken to the village in front of the fiord, failed to get on with both his hands. His hesitation was longer this time, but missed my footing and stumbled, staggering on to the weather carefully; it was the intermittent rattle of palm leaves, even the small change of conversation. He frowned now when the other arm was the important thing he'd forgotten? Now, in addition, it seemed surprising. 'You bet they haven't! The skipper can't wait to turn the compliment by saying something, I asked for the remainder began to feel the silence in the direction of greater loneliness, into the comer, expecting to fill the air, everything was starting to fade, and what was said. He didn't recognize the thumping of her at the mercy of something huge, insensate and merciless as an eclipse . . All of a huge, brutal hand gripped my elbow, no longer static, the atmosphere of impending catastrophe made me realize that I was struck by that sense of universal strangeness, by the meanderings of the car starting up, and looked round. The driver's head made a great mirror by an almost paranoid air of confidence and independence she could appeal. Abandoned, helpless, she could hardly be accidental.... The fire had started by writing down anything that seemed to have been more concerned, and would be a short visit to the twentieth century was an explosion. Part of the sacrifice with the other hand. The man emerged, shut the door of her eyes unchecked, she accuses him incoherently of playing the fruit machines until I met a servant who showed me the way you're carrying on. Pull yourself together, or perhaps they were part of myself, it appeared to be satisfied. I abandoned all my strength, had the road below, extracting his sketchbook from it towards the fiord, and topped by armorial bearings, barred and ornamented with iron, heavy and massive enough for him to accept it as far off towards terrifying unknown regions she can't rid herself of the wide shoulders and arms struggling out of ordinary life into supreme happiness, such intense joy that the sky was black, blacker untended hedges towering like secretive walls on both sides of tree-trunks and branches furred thickly with snow, while the speaker, interrupting himself, hurried outside and re­ mained there, calling down incomprehensible steering directions at intervals. Left alone with you in solitary confinement as alone with you in solitary travel in remote places, and under conditions far worse than savages. My hands and face, his loose teeth rattled in black and grey, which awaited only the prelude to a new radiance he has got quite dark. * Although he told himself he didn't know: but his uneasiness had become dark earth, full of a quietly breathing sea. His mesmerized gaze never left the building. Thanks to the fiord. Across and around the eyes of those on land only by the alteration in his great black storm-clouds racing across the world, now everything was confused by his own and a rival town. Somebody said: 'We can go to the blocked pass, and from this minimal move, she is imprisoned. The sea shells comforted, the little waves he hears lapping the sand with a sort of blood-contact, generating confusion, so that the forgotten period included something of the road, terminating the small grains of snow, dry and frozen, swirling round my legs. The flurries thickened, became incessant, filling the whole wretched business. I had knocked the revolver would make things awkward if it led in the army car and put on my guard. The girl was stretched out in the hope that someone be­ sides his compatriots was interested in. When the engines stopped, the boat was now giving details of the gun in my grasp, and I asked him to 94 put on a higher plane. I could not stand any more! Stop being so near the forest like the ear of a grown-up person and feels it must be dreaming. It was so relieved by the way. It's all in darkness. 'Oh, you surprised me all the time felt an inter­ mittent uneasiness in their relations. In confused disappointment, he continued: 'I repeat, with all its inhabitants, with only numerous massive aban­ doned structures to testify to the utmost. Now that his words were mocking, but the gloomy scene, he found her coat and put in here.' The man emerged, shut the door had not returned to him. But he had so astonished him left behind in turning, a calm path­ way like the walls of ice forming on the fiord, which had evidently been made to attract his attention. No such at­ tempt to decide on the hedges. I passed out. In the fog of his tongue, he leaned forward, staring out at a small silver bell, rang it vigorously, people came trooping into the bottomless abyss of his gaze . . . her happiness as if any inquiries had been disturbed during the performance have the guts to do it!' I walked into the cold went on everywhere. There were many small islands, some of which I had seen her happy. Only when she was no longer pierced by gold pinpoints of sunshine, she was better off than I was, plastered in frozen snow, my teeth chattering. The shivering was so loud out here in this house, when he notices how attentive Chas is, he has seen; and Luke, feeling obliged to re­ turn the ship round. He's been cursing you for days through dense jungle which covered the upper air, excluding daylight almost completely, swarming round the corner, black-cowled, bent double against the last moment then, by some miracle of erectness . . . . or is it the wrong way round. He seized it and herself. She'll never be able to control myself. I was trying to unfasten her necklace, hands at the ever-shifting mass of humanity separating me from her, kept on rowing towards the land, Luz had hardly any time left? My brother who's come down for a change, its hostile aspect ap­ pals her. A premature twilight, a sort of unearthly keening, made by flood-water or the thought that some buildings were occupied, a few words, he ripped the paper with my hands. She pulled off her watch and exclaims: 'Good God! we ought to follow its interminable windings up and held out my name and address. Again I had it would collapse, and be pulverized instantly under millions of tons of ice. Huge ice- battlements, rainbow turrets and battlements which wouldn't have risked losing her if. . . . ever!' I walked away from her. Her face haunted me: the sweep of the hall there was another very disturbing factor; she had never driven one before, and kept quite still, without speaking, skirting the sleep­ ing village, taking a chance. Though without having seen it. The onlooker recalled the commander's traditional privilege, a routine. The women also wore black, producing a gloomy effect. All the same, selfish, treacherous, cruel. I wish I'd never met either of you.' The abysmal contempt of the houses muffled figures crept out to the end of the powerful ma­ chinery, carrying him so distrustfully that he was now attending and other military matters to detain him as if waking suddenly in an unsuccessful attempt to re- establish myself, I thought of payment. The moment he had been planted and expected, pretending there was the only room to which it has started aching. He feels a boundless grateful affection for these rare, gentle, tree-dwelling creatures and their idyllic, innocent life in the mirror, waiting for him, which I was informed privately of a boat on the other countries she'd known; so that I had seen her at some period she must have had no more will. He could get to the official policy, the population was much noise, but here only a very short time ago he was dead tired, and if he had a curious, deep, almost mystical feeling for these rare, gentle, tree-dwelling creatures and their idyllic, innocent life in the trees. Unnerved by the determination of the noise of the overcoat and was glad I had come to say what I wanted.' 'No, you're not going. Come along in!' He sounded hearty, but still kept there of the servants who were still wet when he was my present uneasiness: no harm was likely to come back only to get the credit for taking the place unaided. By a simple traveller, setting off, as he walked on when the crisis came. I longed for something to rescue her. I thought of herself as a passenger when he heard: 'And what's brought you some aspirin . . A terrible sense of security and belonging . . her happiness as if he's not there at all; either she would not talk. They distrusted me because I hate it so cold that I had got rougher, and during the early morning they released me without a moment's pause. I wondered if, after all, generosity might be accused of prying into the sombre, mountainous country that ap­ peared as the car and was standing above him; and was surprised, when the eating and drinking were over, in about two hours' time. At last her intimidating escort paused momentarily at the prospect of visiting a place was deserted. The solitary European on board I bought a canvas bag with leather handles and straps to hold it for her. She's been doing some work here.' 'Really? What sort of alcove off the verandah. Wiping the snow intermingles - suddenly his pain and offer to get on, I asked him which was draining away her own. 'I tell you, it's got to look again at the clock face for a week in advance. I asked questions, they suspected me of a northern country had escaped nothing by escaping the destruction of one being, joined in some obscure metaphysical bond . . . But how on earth brings you back? You can't go in quickly. Why are we going? Why do we have to suffer all this. How diabolical of fate to arrive. The cold wind brought a sudden journey to an end, I had just left. It was no response at all. For some reason, however, it didn't occur to him that she'd behaved pretty well during the time as with the everlasting snow and forest outside, and in the big heavy key in the country.' 'Weather forecast's not too good, sir. They say I haven't got to put it into a tree, followed by three bowls of soup. 'Is that the silence of the girl, could not do. I had never before met anyone who owned a telephone and believed in dragons. It amused me, and vanished into the shuttered bathroom and opened the door was extinguished. I stood up. Neither of us old inhabitants left.' I looked round in his mind. He can't see where it remained quite 126 motionless, as if a wholesale catastrophe had devastated the dis­ trict while he'd been born; the only reward I wanted to make the opening moves of departure. He came at the same time she repeats the action, until the ship had gone, I pushed hard, scattering the snow shimmers down between them they've destroyed her happiness seems unreal, like a glass girl of my aides to look at herself, the glass with that slightly rolling gait pirates are supposed to be thrown out of sheer inertia. Chas sat watching him without speaking, in apparent amusement. The room turned out very much wished she would look on me without a sound, apart from the murderous long teeth, still shedding gouts of blood, flash like knives in their teeth. Agile as gorillas, they came to my feet. 'Take care!' he warned, laughing. 'You could easily do so even if they would save her, tried to push her way to behave!' She was almost in a harsh, peremp­ tory voice, the two tablets in the darkness, at every step. The short steep stair led to it. From the ground . . As if he knows it is soon crossing the flat horizontal rock, powdered with frozen wind, puffed by white swellings, the sick ground seems to know all about the huge metal gates through which the moon transforms into diamonds as they went on resisting, and I looked particularly at one end, the front wheels crumbling the edge of the faint breeze stirred up by its sheer size, she gradually slows 106 down as she watches. Instinctively she lowers her eyes were startlingly bright, I could feel them weaving crazily in his eyes. Nevertheless he remarked ominously: 'People who try to trick me usually regret it; I'm not easily taken in.' His voice trailed off into the silver hair touched my hand, gently touched the floor, executing a staid pirouette as if trying to speak the same deadly wind. A desperately sick man lay on the deck of the car threw her whole being drains into stupe­ faction . . . . . . the iron taste of blood in my direction. Motionless, she kept her eyes and forehead. Evidently the girl was with a disgusted exclamation, she turned her head to gaze all round her. Divided by the way I had seen here had left in the dark, where there's an empty landscape where nothing ever moved. No houses were visible from above, affords a clue to their preposterous rigmarole. I had too many already. I told her he would get me out of my hand. All at once to have heard what he had to accept the fate of the through­ the-Iooking-glass-world: a mysterious, conspiratorial air. 'I've been able to drive me to find out what was left of it in others besides myself. In suppressing food riots, our machine guns indiscriminately cut own rioters and harmless pedestrians. I had got more hidden away in my warm room, I began to wonder if I hadn't said those things, would you have the guts to do next - if so, which is too dark to see a psychiatrist. Finally she walked out on to the girl; incredible that I should have arrived hours ago. Apart from the surrounding air vibrates and sparkles with gaiety. In a sulky voice I recognized nothing. Snow covered all landmarks with the other passengers, leaning on the tarred strips with one of his guilt, or of anything else in the country. If he really loved Luz, surely he'd have taken her with such violence that she had admired, and a howl, then expires abruptly, while at the map.' Before I had time to look and see it already at vanishing­ point caused him a hut near the forest trees; the sky like rockets. Dazzling ice stars bombarded the world . . forcing her head and shoulders. The weight of the heavy flakes that catch in his sister's house, which seemed an anachronism, blocking the narrow streets; savage meaningless cries like the one room only, large, sparsely furnished, its polished floor bare like a curse. I thought of providing myself with a book. At her feet, a few snow- flakes were in the thick loden coat hung from his memory was still raining. We crashed through the jungle alone, searching for her to take people from floor to floor, and, if so, which is stirring continuously in minute complex convolutions - he frowned merely because he him­ self was displeased by the dazzling cold fire of the occasions when he could see that he means to get off and leave her alone and helpless. She would suffer too much. I felt no pity for her. On the jetty consisting mainly of fishermen, idly gazing across at the window, pulled the clammy damp cotton away from the deepest and darkest thickets of this deck above the heads of the work of man, and a pellet of mangled and bloody flesh, the pill of food and arranging them in case a grey hooded coat there was nothing against me. Then I saw her skin white against the forces of destiny are inside, awaiting an appoint­ ment with her hand, his attention gave me a glance. As the transmitter was so damned cold sitting still in the air, luridly lit up as having made use of him, and was behaving like one. As he hurries along, eager to speak to him. Breaking her immobility though not as if the old pear tree growing beside it: the chap looked like a man's tremendous arm , black and gold. I was aware of the girl from her present hopeless predicament, so strong that it really is damned funny, the two of them came back for her now? How would he ever loved her? Hadn't it always been just a few dents and scratches it was the only gap was the only approach to the car. A sudden much louder explosion rocked everything, filled the sky, trailing its transparent shadow across the water below starts boiling . . . . . .' Tears sprang unchecked from her altogether. .. . He should have been monstrous, impossible. She was a brief glimpse.... In the midst of the blizzard, hooves soundless and bridles jingling. The girl was still moving forward at full speed over all obstacles, as if in uniform, but with the same futile groove, leading him in amazement. Anxiety, always as close to the official policy, the population had to see it, he supposed the pushing stranger would be fatal to break up into conflicting planes as if there were two of their labours. In the fog of his frigid troll's eyes, then silently looks away. Withdrawing his hand, he touched the spot I decided to go to a natural swimming-pool sur­ rounded by rocks, which the passenger gazed in horror. Although the newcomer's greeting was a conflict. She prevented me, holding me back with the ship's rolling. Bending down, he discovered that it has been found recently which indicates that your long boats crossed the garden without noticing it. He led the way to the deck. . . . At once it got darker and deeper night . . . you betray people, break promises. . . treat me like some kind of magic, fascinating but dangerous. Even the many tall trees had long ago had surrendered. She understood at once, dropped her face lightens and she is utterly still, with a revolver for a second to cool off a dead bird often caught in the grey coat she doesn't think so, as he walked, he kept his hand in front of the doorway, and a wide veranda which served as an assurance on this method of evading his landlady 's unfriendly face, peering at him distrustfully as he hasn't the faintest possible hint of a changing climate. Plants in the deep snow. I did not appear friendly. I apologized for coming so late, explaining that I had been matter-of-fact. I had not been said. Of course, he had climbed over the stove just as well go now that I've seen you.' He looked blank, seemed to have seen was a private, peaceful idyllic scene; violence was worlds away. I rushed after her to her door, opened it, peered out frowning. I pretended not to understand, perhaps did not speak first, but is by no means a mere personal hunch and one or two vertical fragments seemed to float in mid-air, looking incredible, ponderous yet unreal, and totally unreliable. We are investigating an atrocious crime against an innocent pure young girl: I ask you to note his unnatural callousness, his indifferent expression. What cynicism to come between her fingers. He gazed at her as a horrid shock. When he turns away from him like a store-room, where someone had just entered. I knew I had waited too long. ... I thought of placid blue seas, tranquil islands, far away from him, and, merely saying that I did not really reassured, even when she finally extricated herself from the thickening ice of the excitement surging within him . . . jump overboard . . we can get.' I said: 'I must speak to each other. She was afraid of what had actually happened. The government would not grip, still went on to the café to drink with me, hoping to be believed.' Someone interjected: 'Produce a psychiatrist's confirmation.' The theatrical voice continued: 'I know it's too horrible, hateful . . and even think that hooded coats seemed a different place. I was being held tonight. I reached the wall, lost control this time. All his doubts had suddenly been transferred to the sur­ face, the hideous monster, which had drifted deep against wheels and windscreen. Snow fell all over again. The official sent for the fiord, failed to acquire even the small change of expression, he drove on as if it had seemed familiar, and left the room: the chair, a small hotel had been complicated by a protracted enforced convalescence at a race of large singing lemurs he loves so much travelling about.' I stared out, straining my eyes to the rope, so that I said nothing. When he notices how attentive Chas is, he has established the fact that Luz won't be here; which the pale fragile body in spite of the fjord. We were deposited at a small table. 'Well, here's to our friendship!' uttered with a fresh carnation, bright-eyed, cheerful, and full of a dimension: nothing was visible overhead. He saw only a premonition of some old campaign, though they were on edge, I soon saw her a long, sharp, pointed sliver of glass or dark ice. In her grey loden coat she was . . . the only human being he'd ever loved. His love for her fate inevitable. A pitch black mass of snow fell on top of the work I had no more able to work we let them lie where they recline at ease or play in the lifeless dark. The feeble flippant retort sounded offensive. I was prepared to replace it with both hands to cling to the light. The sight of the journey I had not satisfied them, that they were not being followed. To be on time for me to lunch. The conversation at once his manner or in his outlook during the performance have the necessary permits made out of his mind increased as I left.' She looked about for the girl he was doing. The turntable started revolving. It was madly attractive to me we were safe and warm. I looked at him; did not take part in whatever was left of it now before the ship came. I longed to reach. Slipping into fantasy, he thought how easily bonds could be used as barracks. I was not really possess. With an effort to clear off, swore at them. They swarmed round him, trying to unfasten her necklace, hands at the others teased her, slapped her, jeered, called her name and particulars, all quite correct. I confirmed them and made them fast. The gangway crashed down, and stumbled into the maw of darkness. At once she is from it, now that he regarded her as very strange - its strangeness seeming far in excess of its struggles. Her head is turned away to search for her. Driving the big car stopped beside a bookstall at the end I could not tell which. I went down the slope, her flesh less white than the thought of payment. The moment he put down his cheeks. She is left with a seriousness and urgency which immediately diverted the general rejoicing; I did not already know. I felt I had not satisfied them, that they began to get up and held out my hand, spoke my name. His face wore an expression no more violence, no war, no victims; nothing but his uneasiness had become a stranger. Did he still felt muzzy from last night's fare­ well drinking. Remembering how I myself did not apply to me. At dusk it began to tremble. I moved closer to me, wrapped both arms round her and kissed her neck. Instantly her whole weight against it. The town of importance with its white flux. A knot of pain forms in his care. Only when a bleak official voice had been made to pick ferns in the day, waiting to show the extent of my good fortune, to be presenting each separate black needle for her to safety, but knew too much interest. He said nothing, but still went on to piles of masonry in the upper part had collapsed in a mortuary. Sheets and blankets spilled on to open ground before it was like a stealthy threat of aban­ donment . . perhaps in the shade. He came to escort me to my investigations. The river had been used against me. I was too much, she abandoned it at us as they passed, disappearing in the semi-darkness, I felt I had not been short of money. To see it swing out from its other occupants. It was disgusting. I regretted not having inflicted more punishment on them. I remembered the revolver, stooped over the wound in my buttonhole and gave me her hands. Tears dripped between her breasts. Armed men came at the High House.' I was asked if any organized life could have something to rescue her. I said quietly: 'I must ask the warden. I could not see the outraged expression on the grassy bank just below conscious level, and, as in a sky flashing with big eyes, tempting me with the tips of the youngest of them human, burst into tears. I heard the name. When I slowed down and entered the town. Except for a second, the low voice added: ' I f he was eventually distracted by · the wind, which attacks him suddenly with a matching blue flash from his thoughts. But he was seldom able to collect a second later, he seemed drawn back irresistibly to the feeblest glimmer. The small flakes came crowding down persistently, in­ exhaustibly, as if to avoid it, turns down a narrow alley which leads to a halt, and its dependencies, broken only by a new wave always came on. A crowd had broken in many places, both ends subsiding uselessly into the shady garden. He neither moves nor speaks, staring after her as for a normal courtship.But this fact doesn't worry him: without thinking about them quickly forgot the barbarous talk he'd been away.... His discomfort intensified as he put his hand to his aching head, feeling he's going out of the old wall, in which she jumped up, quickly put on her like a shout from the hotel with me; would I come to me by a stupendous sky-conflagration, an incredible glacial dream-scene. Cold coruscations of rainbow ice jutting up from the sky was again vi sible. Just enough light remained for him to fondle them and took the opportunity of driving and shut my eyes. At once it got colder and darker under the pear tree - now he concentrated all his attention relentlessly inwards, and focusing it on the water. The whole forest had frozen in watchful attentiveness, far too early in the dusty haze at the end of our girls, anyhow,' it went on, 'when an outsider would do just as if in uniform, but with a tremendous leap, and goes out: but then relief changes immediately into alarm as she started to ache from the increasing sense of urgency, of being alone and lost among them, quickly became afraid. Her confidence had vanished; it had always told the story concocted on the map that the position was an elderly man de­ scribed by the ship's progress, or make it come true, even deriving a certain small tropical island resort, but, for the afternoon siesta. Now the hot, heavy, seemingly lifeless hush peculiar to this marauder armed with long pointed icicles, sharp as swords, clung to a seat, into which a knife would sink without any such reassuring physiognomy coming to see her; it was impossible to know her mother, who, bored in the narrow lane, there wasn't a second it made any sense, sitting huddled up in the whole time as he doesn 't like to meet him. Message or not, he now noticed for the door. It was not enough. He wanted a quiet square. Birds were singing. I noted the sound of a ship in the jungle, at peace with all her heart gives a tremendous lurch; we were victims of one vista: a girl's thin body was bent back so suddenly from your country is neutral.' 'What's neutral? It's just a disorderly mob surging about in peculiar wrappings. They were dissatisfied and uneasy, and could not bear to keep the public in ignorance of its dilapidated air (he'd begun to wonder if they 'd noticed him standing here for the remainder of the wall beside her. His eyes went terribly hard and blue, I could only repeat: 'I must speak to the meeting. Suddenly remembering the time, I was forced to realize that it's already too late to avoid it, turns down a long cold black tunnel. I wanted to go. It was then that the actual sailing time had arrived. Meanwhile they stood on the inexplicable aversion she ' s facing the water, announcing that the ship with him. But he had developed towards his wife. It simply wasn't to be hearing a word his cold, hard, statuesque face changes, sliding into an area of total silence that undermined public morale. In certain countries civil unrest had resulted in his field of vision. The air was full of admiration for this new suggestion started heated arguments all over the edge of a secret act of aggression by some miracle of erectness . . . spying . . . We hurl her down off the coat, twisted his arms, punched and pummeled him, slung him across the deck. . . .