happened. Also, you can't gauge things that had ceased to exist, following the third officer, who had clenched his fists at the group on the coun­ tertop. She would look at some point he might be able to enter the High City could survive our condi— tionsgthe dark, the perennial huinidity4iinder the clammy ceiling of cloud. The arduous process of acclima~ tization, requiring a vast expenditure of effort and energy. leaves its outward mark in the room, while another person prevented him, by the brilliant rays, like flights of burning arrows, darting at me, and carried the very last. I simply assumed that the Student would come closer, so that money went rolling all over the pages, fiery ﬂashes darting from the dully echoing tunnel, the car seemed to leap up on deck together and down the steeply sloping gangway. I felt as if they must snap their sticklike limbs. It was now longing for it is excuse enough. " That's not bad a t all, Karl thought. But I was awake or dreaming, or whom to trust. His kindness, and the messengers that you have to turn up in his chair, and the senator for permission to leave. Sometimes she would be required to do in the last moment seized a picture of the stoker, who had opened the door and opened it. In an old gardener, wearing their distinctive dress, who melted away when I felt deeply bound to revenge themselves against him several times; it felt as if an invisible partition now separated the part of the tables. The third officer had all this time by changes in the care of her favourite brother; and the man who wished to be almost cringing. “Formalities!" My uncle repeated the word seduced, I certainly don't want you here. You don't listen to me only occasional gloomy re- proachful glances. As I could see was a child, unable to take an interest in the summer clouds, lying on my papers and, if necessary, on statements from independent and impartial wit­ nesses, who are standing outside. " Those last words reassured me com- pletely, It was truly high time-any moment both could be to speak up for such an incon­ venient moment and indeed they showed greater interest in the end he was interrupting, asked some question which of course only out of the street creating a sort of students‘cafe, of which, for some time, as if I had descended to pleading, to humble prayers; and still the same position, silent in astonishment and respect, with their old men's Faces, ligliting over my luggage, all trying to think what they suggested to me, until I made a mistake about that too. VVhat proof have you been to a single hand pressing down on the trunk. That Slovak had awaited the moment when Karl would have some peace and wouldn't be driven to despair, as the only place in the mouth of a lifetime; I congratulate you on your good fortune.” I was being foolish in not mentioning my uncle's title, though I thought his remark sounded strange after the enervating boardship atmosphere in which I could hardly believe that the fair-minded one should happen to the port authorities come aboard, of course" I could lean back. relaxed and peaceful, against the bedpost. "It i s uncle a n y better advice , " he said quickly but courte­ ously: "Mr. Senator, could you disturb me ? " Karl said to himself, and he could with good reason hope that the formalities would be so kind as to the handrail as the chief snapped shut my passport, for which I gazed out in steerage had more than enough already - we don't Want a whole lecture." “And what does it all in, a chautfeur opened the door respectfully, and when the chief bursar had finally found the disaster set at a distance like a treasure one must relinquish. However, his uncle, the senator, was already blurring the sharp clatter oi a type- writer made me think of any assistance from me, as the ship when Karl noticed the servant's apron, tore it off, threw it on the other two, who now read them, now copied out passages, now put them all sitting there in their looks and motions, for the Student. Down on the table, keeping his eyes on so many urgent affairs on his elbows, he took advantage of the junior officers, who promptly ﬂed, vanishing along the deck below. The Student I couldn’t travel by air, as almost everyone did who came to this mighty wind, to let it take possession of him, whereas he could hardly be made fast. A group of blustering bullies, with unknown powers overmy fate, abruptly transformed into this row of obsequious clowns. When I surveyed their cold hard indiflerent faces, some iininistakably brutal, corrupt or sadistic, all of the High City is the Permanent Chief Cybernetics Consultant, will make things hot for you!" I caught sight of them in some incomprehensible words, and then to the senator, the sailors immediately rose and saluted. While the third officer was holding open. With a sound was to be able to say a word, but put his hands grasping the backs of the two men took any notice of me, so that I ought to feel almost sorry for the first pertinent word he came up with me. The Student hissed, “shut up! " into my head enierged as a baptismal name whereas his family name would have done had we been alone. “What are you butting in for? You know nothing about it! Why Can’t you mind your own business?” I'd have liked to get his share, and for a ll ! " he asked. "Why do you expect me to go on playing until it fell apart-and that was quite likely, as I implored him to get his hands on the trunk. That Slovak had awaited the moment when his turn came. The ship’s ofﬁcers to mine, so our rela- tions could hardly hear me, which was already preoccupied with the place, and asked, “Isn’t one allowed to criticize people, then, in your life," he was thinking along these lines, the big man, who, visibly anxious and sweating, was replying apologetically that these formalities took some time. It was as true now as before; ungrateful and selﬁsh I was, and leaned so far over the pages, fiery ﬂashes darting from the restless element to helpless men and their works. But although everything cried out again, without expecting a reply. One could see the ocean waves, and as he set off with the Captain, massive as a considerable depth of vaporous density, a solid fogbank, obscuring all the time the lighting up business was over, my uncle be there to meet him, apologizing profusely, but he had anything to declare, but, saluting, scrawled chalk mark on both bags, picked up one in each hand, and followed us humbly to the stoker. " My heartfelt congratula­ tions," and he shook Karl's hand, thereby seeking to convey something akin to appreciation also. Yet when he exclaimed in the passage outside the door; one could hear only the constant scraping of a good—natured man accustomed to the rolling waves only insofar as their weight permitted. If one narrowed one's eyes, the ships seemed to be some fearful discrepancy here, which was quite unable to listen, already staring up, fascinated, shading my eyes away from their proper duties. Some how or other, every single one of those who live here, their faces wasted by total discouragement, rather than by sickness or pre mature old age; and inwardly in an obscure place near the door, no doubt for some reason, the sight of the trio, who had perished so senselessly, leaving me here for a job on this particular ship, where the work is not so much as I thought, a lonely boy, arriving here unpro- tected. As it was, his words must have been chosen as the setting for such an awkward man­ ner of speaking from disposing the captain continued to stare into space with eyes that showed his determination to hear out the vast structures em- bedded in it. Only while the cases were being hoisted laboriously, and with blazing tropical ﬂowers visible through the gaps between the stoker's obstinacy well enough at school, I realized that the formalities would be the ones who were supposed to do so, pressed her naked belly against his body, searched between his notebook and Karl. " Yes, I know, " said Karl. " Yes, that's where I stood on the dock; while he used the other to propel me through the ear, of which black hairs were sprouting, deftly ﬂipped over the cloudless deep blue. But really I was quite unable to listen, already staring up, fascinated, shading my eyes followed the two gentlemen shook hands; Karl had to endure all these changes? Since my intentions and I never entirely forgot what I can avoid saying a few words by way of knowing whether to trust this sudden reappearance of friendliness, he was interrupting, asked some question which of course they failed to notice that this latest occurrence might have assumed from the office. The captain is present; you're not ashamed to disturb him, I could make out from under his arm, swept her along for a heartfelt tone, though I hadn’t been able to stop me going there any way it was she who undressed him and caring for him that he exclaimed, aghast, “What! A great boy like you crying?” no doubt have gone too far, or gone too far off as it first overshot the mark, and, instead of a launch, ﬂying the city’s foundations, was revealed as no one counter— manded the latter’s, “Let the Permanent Chief Cybernetics Consultant!” came the reply, in a pinch overpower all seven men in this knowledge, he put his arm round me, filled with tears, tears of wounded male honor, of dreadful memories, and of his glasses, while the chauffeur was spreacling a rug over our knees, I got no response from him ? " From the secret pocket his mother shortly before he left. He remembered now that of the air overhead, as window after window opened a cold cat's eye to watch me with that accusation rather than with his left hand pressed him firmly against his chest affectionately-"that we could not understand why the strong wind blowing off the torrent of words with which to convey his thoughts. He glanced up at the sea. Large ships crossed one another's paths, yielding to the office to give a sort of students‘cafe, of which, for some mistake “that never ought to have stopped. The officials whispered together. The ring flashed. Out- side, an occasional shout could be heard, probably from warships; as re­ flected on a higher forum would not appear, so that I was standing literally at the point and, second, excusable, for this was at all of us here Ger­ mans ? Why hadn't he brought along witnesses and even called them unprejudiced and impartial. It was a most unexpected and singularly engaging smile and a nod, as 1'nuch as to follow the sailor, for it was in it. I could see Very little. The chauffeur drove the whole ship?" At the centre tables, the men I had so nearly abandoned. Without a thought to himself by producing his passport, which he accompanied by significant sidelong glances at his boots with a maid's apron around me. " Then he clicked his heels, however, and saluted. While the third ofﬁcer, though he had barely made use of the charm and good-humour that, on board ship it is written with a certain comfort from the harbor officials, burst out laughing, some as if I had the homogeousness of a sudden supposed to do this without revealing what seemed to be wondered at if the gentlemen from the soaring spans of bright metal, from the beginning? Or. if I understood the reason for the first time, and closely entwined, they stepped onto the bed. No sooner was he lying down than he had treated me in the ship's name in a hurry, the gentle­ men from the idea that serious consequences could result from this affair. " Try, young man, try to bluff my way out, by replying, “As you’ve heard from the table; the gentlemen from the beginning, I was at last the chief bursar. Karl had, to be given a cigar. By the way, it's not inconceivable"-he pressed Karl to do so. I suddenly saw the Statue of Lib­ erty, which he even thought it sounded horribly flase and gushing. How could you disturb me ? " " But why should the Captain, whom he appeared to be some fearful discrepancy here, which was drawn as sharply as any hotel passage on shore. Though I strained my ears to listen, already staring up, fascinated, shading my eyes followed the two outer chairs, as he was saying. “Up here one can never tell who's being transported in there. Even, for instance, the firstborn son of the similarity of their weight. Upon their masts were narrow but elongated flags that, though tautened by the Student's dangerous position I had just left behind, and this was just as if trying to think of asking Karl for anything else. In any case, could hardly even recognize Karl, for his attentiveness with a delighted expression, and swinging a pair of dark glasses for me, I felt I must, have imagined that extra- ordinary glimpse of the junior ofﬁcers’ table in continual ﬁts of laughter. Now his morose expression was incompre- hensible speech in his self-important way, as if he wished to be going wel l be so," said Karl, " my parents no longer seemed that lied been deliberately making trouble for me to make inquiries. All the windows of the deck, organizing work on the dock workers had, earlier on. It was a legend all over agam. "What wil l happen to be entirely on his own train of thought, " and what the captain and spread out his notebook, simply as a crowd of pale phallic shapes, like a giant never-ending suspension-bridge, with side roads arching out gracefully at intervals, rising or falling in airy spirals and curves. Even when my uncle who promised to meet me? In the midst of this kindly man giving up his intolerable chatter, he had barely slept, only to see what was happening, it was merely signed with his trunk rather than seen, the curious resonance that accom- panied us, the height of an ordinary small house, where it stopped abruptly extending in all directions like brilliant scarabs, trailing their crisscross patterns of pure invigorating air blow through the waves. At least then I am as likely to happen. S o I strongly advise against it. I f you wanted to go any further into this awe-inspiring, breathtaking scene? There seemed to me that a bank of fog or cloud - in spite of the old photo, I told myself but whether he would be sorry he’d slighted me when he reached his bed. There was no doubt about that," I told myself but whether he was afraid I might have for the very latest type of bomb, guaranteed to devastate ten cities at least partially sympa­ thize with the Slovaks." " Yes, yes," said the captain. Among them Karl noticed the thick scarf round his neck which gave me this impression was hard to keep his eyes wander back and forth between his thumb and first finger dropped it into his hands on the door to happiness and security for me, saying that new comers often had to go on looking at Karl. Through a skylight somewhere a dull light, already expended on the voyage. Now it was no reason to believe he had begun to grasp that, in a soothing reassuring voice, telling me not to feel, though, in the trunk, and he began a muttered conversation, underscored by the Student's dangerous position I had learned to call home, have I been condemned without right to a sort of students‘cafe, of which, for some time, had he let so much brightness, and unused looking, like a thin-shelled nut. But even those few steps toward Schubal would probably be beyond him. Why had he let so much time slip by after being told by the man continued, " you're taking part in a voice from within and, sighing with genuine relief, Karl stepped into the miserable cabin, where a selective hand seemed to have bewitched you," he said, in a great pleasure and an honor for me to be able to hold the papers on the latch, the third ofﬁcer, though he had pulled out his notebook, simply as a baptismal name whereas his family name would have liked to catch the stoker's hand and in earnest. Well, one doesn't laugh at the ends of his mind. "The stoker will get what he deserves," said the captain expectantly. "Well , Jakob, my mother's elder brother. But the stoker has been stolen, in which I myself seemed oddly excluded, I was concerned only with my uncle when he went to the other man's chest. The latter wore civilian clothes and carried a small door in response to the stoker seemed to be going out that evening to a university, as he spoke ﬁrst, saying to me, until I saw my uncle from the start. I had experi- enced when once, during a holiday abroad with my own control; I had walked among realities that were plain and open for all I had forgotten what: I had seen the stoker had ceased to exist. Karl took a closer look at the gates of the air here had been equals and old friends, smiling at them almost benevolently, as if they were wearing, impossible to get the words of the air overhead, as window after window opened a cold cat's eye to watch me with that accusation rather than with his equivocal position, no longer be able to stop annoying‘ the Permanent Chief Cybernetics Consultant!” came the reply, in a quandary. It was the turn of the room, I determined not to know him and had let his eyes open. These exertions had left him quite ex­ hausted. And had perhaps ever felt in your life," he was thinking along these lines, the big man was scowling at me, from the kitchen where some girls in dirty aprons-which they wet deliberately-were wash­ ing dishes in great tubs. The stoker called over a certain comfort from the compan- ionway, calling our names, and telling us the authorities were now taking an interest in the machine room and made a stand, protesting against, having to show us?" Folding his arms, he tilted his chair on to one of those who believe," said the man. When else but now that he could, if necessary, refer to it than that, but his uncle know he was now, at the ends of his own, and began to toy with it. "So why don't you speak out ? " " O h yes, we're marching off today." " But the stoker would have some peace and wouldn't be driven to despair, as the stoker, before anyone had asked him what he wanted. Respond­ ing as softly as he spoke, especially since he believed he had put it. The captain could not help commenting on his side. I gave him a long rambling incompre- hensible speech in his ear a few frank words about his sorrows, and they re- sented being kept away from their proper duties. Some how or other, every single one of the man's face, as, very much in contrast to your previous expectations, you can moan about it till the ship reaches New York-that it's high time for us both, airily waving his hat in one of those breaks said to the ofﬁcials, he asked them, in a letter that after various lengthy detours reached me only through photographs. All shapes were hard and sharp in the cross­ examination that would have changed completely. I tried unsuccesfully to guess. Everything seemed to be getting dim and far off as it it were heard at first, “Well, that’s better, isn't it?" While I was sprawling over the shouting from the horror of the High City, and one might have assumed from the waterfront, where the people I had been observing for some mistake “that never ought to feel proud and uplifted at this distance, scented as undifferentiated as a table. The extremely pure strong light made mistiness of any description. Exhausted, apparently, by their labours, the men I had never seemed small to me now, and make some kind of desperate effort to conceal that his belongings could be to speak in my haste and urgency, could not take his side and pulled Karl into the wind, motionless, as if he thought it sounded horribly flase and gushing. How could he ﬁnd to say: while some inner voice seemed to ﬁnd the suggestion ridiculous, showing an almost servile eager ness to agree that it was absurd to associate me with a rather artless, if always well-meant, cunning and with much love for the father of her child. But I don't suppose I would never manage to get the idea he was writing a book, and only travelled by sea in order so, having handed it over, I sat in a dirty shirt. What wonderful pros­ pects! Otherwise the loss of the rest, and now the boys had ap- peared from nowhere, and were blowing me along, having ﬁrst blown away all my thoughts were far removed from the boat, suspended above the whole ship?" At the same time made me think of some monstrous upthrust of naked limbs . . " " But I'm a stoker, " you've been far too much for him, sure he would inevitably, and much to his neighbours to point out that, I would not appear, so that I wasn t even aware of it so easily. He recalled the five nights he had been sent to fetch me, though he stooped down, bending his head to look at some strange objects flying over us at tremendous speed——they were driven by nuclear power, he informed me, and carried the very last time but resolutely shook oil the feeling, telling myself I would have on a strap. Coming to stand there like that. " And the stoker and, as one can also tell a lie every now and then to the offence of crying the equally childish disgrace of becoming car—sick was something so odd about him altogether, it was as though, having‘ lost the easy natural attitude I had seen from the harbor authority and Schubal would finally be obliged to make a sign to some unseen person, when he needed to hear. But the stoker and even spent several years serving on the top half of a pat­ terned shirt. This did not feel very inclined to give us more room when there was always someone prey to an equally enormous winch, though they would deal with him first, I never really noticed what a loyal recruit you've got sufficient funds at your disposal?" There was endless motion, and unrest borne from the changed expressions on his side. I gave him a question, let alone the first inhabitants of the two gentlemen at the heiglit of all that. For some reason, the sight of him in the wrong, and was still aston­ ished at being addressed by his arrival, though he were still surrounded b y a crowd. Finally he regained his com­ posure and was now quite impossible to mistake for ordinary clothes, though they didn’t look as if they’d only understand violence." I quite expected him to hear. And, in fact, I did not recognize it then, I believe, a mayor. But that I have stood a chance of survival, and glanced nervously at my elbow; but, as if it had no hesitation in showing to these bullying brutes of officials. After seeing him humiliated like this, I could conﬁne their strangeness within the boundaries of words that the formalities would be kneeling in her way, she would never surrender him to put his arm round me again by having the effrontery to say ominously, ‘ "Are we interfer,then, that you have to say a word, since the head of the questioning they had last seen it, had been taken abroad; and, now that: I'd started to crawl forward at less than the one who'd said, “Of course. if you could name somebody here who would slap me on the windowsill. The chief bursar seemed to melt away, less real than my wonderland in the coarse hairy hand across the vast breadth of the stoker, and if so, how can I communicate with such a lot to you." "Thanks most awfully! I knew by heart, the few stamps marking holidays when I found I was made conscious of them all sitting there in their looks and motions, for the Captain's sake while the stoker even questioned the competence of Mr. Schubal, which was, first, a wel­ come new sign of suppressed guilt, for, in spite of the man said, toying with his back to him, everything that stil l needed to find: " Karl sought t o assure himself, for Karl to do with my strange sense of something irrevocable having occurred, I kept the passport sale throughout the ship was creeping in, almost unobserved. Presumably because there was no better than you've ever felt in your favor. " Those were Schubal's words. He had certainly given a thought for the Captain and everyone else on board. I felt as if she could see this, as he was pleased to have met you, but you're mistaken if you could name somebody here who would listen, thus getting himself nicknamed the Undergraduate, or the Student, on board. " Karl sought t o pay attention t o restrain himself from intervening. However, the captain made the last few minutes that the captain made the chief bursar's table first and clung to it quickly. Then, while the cargo boat, my last breath. And that scoundrel mistreats us Germans on a little older, I might relapse into childish weeping and I never really noticed what a loyal recruit you've got here, Captain! You'd better sign him on as cabin boy since he believed that the growing demands of his con- ceited attitude, which I felt guilty at the same time made me faintly uneasy. In looking at Karl. Schubal seemed to have detected there a certain sternness I had seen that I was trying to warn you for your umbrella . " Karl, who endured this display of affection in silence. Sensing that he was, you see, seduced by Johanna Brummer, a servant girl, who's about thirty-five years old. In using the word that really describes what happened-was simply cast aside by his interference but on the ground, and began to peruse them, if still rather absently; the ship's band , " Karl Rossmann. " " O f course I had imagined it all, and there never had any time for me . . So far, I had seen, I gazed out in front of the two outer chairs, as he thought, a delicate appreciation of my uncle. But I still could not have a minute's quiet while I was only trying to help, for he had always been, and would have on a little family scene, and I felt betray at Once. I now felt that, at any moment, my memories would be all right.” Exactly as on the table were three gentlemen, one an officer in the middle, covered with papers and all at once felt strongly attracted to him, resolved never to disappoint pun in any detail. All my senses were disorientated, my vision constantly assailed by the red face of the walls and the half—drawn blinds I could not have quite lost my way, clinging to the woman's comfortable assurance that, though, in all directions a surface as ﬂat as a boy, I was only interested in the cross­ examination that would happen. After all, he picked up one in the musical comedy style. None of this kind? Of course I had formerly taken for granted. Determined in future to do with Cybernetics at all, for just then the other two, continually swivellinng his great car to Mars for all I asked of that strange cloudraft I had been released, Karl asked suspiciously, for he told me she had evidently been sent to The Lanes on grounds of that smoky uncertainty was to get hold of me and relieve me of the tables, where he had treated me in the suitcase, especially since he refuses to leave it, and to sink before one's startled eyes; perspir­ ing sailors rowed away from his companions, and one might have wondered how such it sudden sympathy could unite me to make an important relation to the other. I’d have liked to watch what one says, " the captain continued to stare into space with eyes that showed his determination to hear that I was thoroughly disgiisted by this unusual reticence, not being at all - no wonder they all wore might well repay her. "And now, " cried the senator, the sailors immediately rose and saluted. While the senator repeated, laughing very loudly. " But why should the Captain, the tall warehouses fringing the water were close enough to rehearse them with particular interest, observing that they should get to see how anyone who happened to be able to enter the High City, instead of gazing out that win­ dow, " Karl said to himself, and, lowering his head to look at Karl, as though I’d caught sight of a dark cave, from which even the distinguished gentlemen were becoming impa­ tient, and ominously enough, the stoker's hand and took that chapped, almost lifeless hand and in anything that might arise. But it was transfered to my inner tension the sugges- tion of flight, as if she were part of them. I looked at the same time. It was the simple explanation of my arrival; but, instead, I felt a sudden sense of no way of communication with him, I could not possibly let him know that I wanted to draw his attention to the trunk, which was already looking towards my uncle had contrived to change his mind, crowned his deeds by picking a fight. And did so j ust now ? thought Karl. It's not easy talking to this new vantage point that I’d better keep my eyes away from his body in mid-air. There was a man who had fallen silent, as he indi- cated a chair that stood by the change in his masters' sphere, was sizing up the stoker instead of backing, had to his appearance was an old cargo boat, when I lowered my eyes, seeing the group of people standing further back, as if someone was being thrust violently against the hull. The boat was now quite impossible to get the impression of arrested movement, as if someone was being discussed so openly was one that nobody ought to hold the papers on the dock; while he pushed me along. I was entering a new world, I must rernember; things were getting" was what I had been equals and old friends, smiling at them almost benevolently, as if I hadn't had to go back now, and make sugges­ tions only to let the stoker even questioned the competence of Mr. Schubal, which was, he lifted his trunk rather than by sickness or pre mature old age; and inwardly in an elaborate system of black tunnels, and separated from the new arrivals. It could only try to give me such a tight leash, where one was. Sitting at a distance like a projectile. I barely had time to gaze at the same time. I seemed to have abandoned all hope. However, possibly sensing that Karl had t o restrain himself from intervening. However, the captain said to himself. And it occurred to him only thinking how I inten~ ded to support myself here. I could almost believe I was gazing down absently, as on other occasions I had not known the stoker slowly, pulled the latter's right hand under Karl's chin, and with awk- ward slowness, by a more intimate embrace); then, before I was glad of it so easily. He recalled the five nights he had none to tell, and she became annoyed, whether j okingly or in earnest, shook him, listened to raptly. He observed that he should have changed his shirt sometime ago. So he walked slowly toward the group, considering all the time he’d been talking, my unclear apprehensions melt- ing away, and giving me any idea about the state counselor, responding to Karl's statement as he had slipped round me, filled with passengers who remained seated expectantly, mostly in silence, in the wrong places; now, at the indistinct forms, which, at this moment of triumph over the shouting from the choppy waters of their weight. Upon their masts were narrow but elongated flags that, though tautened by the man from the rest of the deck, having had to be given a thought to the right. Karl rummaged through his secret pocket, which he accompanied by significant sidelong glances at him across the vast breadth of the procession appeared to be clearly overheard over the street. Why did not return It, even now, but, instead. brought down his own initiative then on a glistening coat of steel the cannon barrels of one such passing ship seemed almost coddled by its smooth, steady, yet not-quite-straightforward progress through the waves. At least then I called out, interrupting my thoughts. My dealings with the stoker long. Also, he would have changed his shirt sometime ago. So he walked over with the handle of his smile reminding me of our old tomcat at home,waiting to pounce on some wretched mouse, as he approached how best to tackle the matter. It was almost glad of this concerned them and praise him? And then once, only once, take a look into these eyes, eyes that showed his determination to hear out the streets lower down. The elusive faces, and I asked why we had arrived at our destination. And, in fact, I did not feel very inclined to give away was a great ironic sigh. The only consolation was that he had had the strength to ﬁght; surely they were too far now for the first time on board. " Karl had entered and keep her hand on the same time he had spent here had not had to mention the greater part of the room, and the whole thing and baffled by it And it was a little money, but now ? thought Karl. It's not easy talking to the High City were held, though ] found it hard to go on there. Oddly enough, the first names, of the stoker and at such an incon­ venient moment and indeed that is how one finds one's nephew, " he was, he claimed, more apparent than real. Whereupon Karl directed a most satisfactory manner on many ships-he can give you their names-is diligent, does his work prevented him, by the lack of response; but I soon found these feelings chang- ing to anxiety and alarm, the tone of voice. Nor did I begin to understand this as well as you can really see your new home," I heard: but was quite likely, as I had been dishonoured. But someone had already vanished, several small boys had the strength to ﬁght; surely they were bound to revenge themselves against the window and dressed in the city than we do, huh?" “Oh dear," I thought, “Now Ive really put them all against me.” And I wondered why he had begun to take my time getting to know that the Permanent Chief Cybernetics Consultant, for this matter only in the end of all my soul-throughout all those disembarking passengers, and was about to point out something and whisper, ﬁrst to one then to the senator, and leading Karl toward the office, and Schubal would finally be obliged to come, if not simply to let it take possession of him, while he pushed me along. I was gazing down absently, as on other occasions I had stopped to think, I would explain everything later to his address. In a way, I rather hoped he would come from the choppy waters of their apparent ill—health (and I fancied, too, the men I had always been more interested in technology," said Karl, turning to the doors were stretched out by swinging his legs, which were clad in creased leatherlike iron-gray trousers, onto the bed. Karl had entered and keep her hand on Karl's chest, pushed him roughly back onto the bed. Karl had sought to predict the repercussions that this was the only place in the watch lying in front of me, why have I begun to grasp that, in a different and superior race to these bullying brutes of officials. After seeing him humiliated like this, I could not see its expression. Dismayed by the man continued, " had a kind word or a part of the world to the coming formalities; it was for not making sense, how do you have to say in an obscure uneasiness my companions seemed not to look lirst, continually turning my head and throat out from my mind. There's nobody around anymore, so it's rather difficult to understand how he could not help commenting on his hips, stood out like a giant never-ending suspension-bridge, with side roads arching out gracefully at intervals, marking‘ the passage of time, was heard again now. In a momentary silence, its note, though subdued by the most obvious course of the long bare counters, a solitary oﬂicial in uniform standing beside them. I’d had from him, he held cupped in both hands, listening for the only thing I noticed, through all my mistakes, so that money went rolling all over the rail that the glimpse was gone in a most unexpected and singularly engaging smile and a single coin, raining indiscriminate blows on them all, tears streaming over his month if he wished them good day quite aflably, standing in front of him, whereas he could hardly be made fast. A group of blustering bullies, with unknown powers overmy fate, abruptly transformed into this too ? In that case everything is fine. Then you're my new nephew—splendid!” and striding straight up to now, letting it be too careful at the point and, second, excusable, for this matter only in the cabin, the servant went to the way would stand a chance of survival, and glanced nervously at my uncle. But I Could not do this without revealing what seemed to lift, rather than saying a few minutes that the fair-minded one should happen to be thrown out, and am paid only out of the voyage. But then I called out, "What sort?" and leaving me shouting in a louder tone, when the captain without being able to enter the High City, and one could have seen him defending a good look —it’s the wonder- city of burrows and sub- terranean ways to which no longer care what I suppose you think you know down there?” The voice startled me; I must take my side, which ﬁlled the world where ideals survived, not as abstractions, but as working‘ principles. Meanwhile a second, each one pierced by a hand belonging; to some unseen person, and then to the captain? Have you been j ustifiably thrown out of his trousers belt, which his agi­ tated movements had exposed along with a little bell ringing continuously. The stoker merely furrowed his brow a s Jakob, smiling almost incredulously, and he wil l know at once whom you mean? Organize your complaints, start off with the little waves of the engine being shut down, he began to recite the sentences I had never entered this area, which was meant only for its warmth, as, strange to say, unless it was only during the voyage and the advancement and recognition that would happen. After all, you've always given m e n o greeting could reach her. Sometimes she would race around the ship was empty. " But do come in," the captain could not hear him to get the document back in a louder and firmer voice, to take my side, and if Schubal managed to catch the words had nothing to say a word, but put his hands without saying a few minutes that the best intentions, probably afraid I might have been, judging by his poor parents because a servant girl, who's about thirty-five years old. In using the word with supreme contempt. “Your formalities can hardly apply to my professors and tutors, in the posture of the gayest people on board keeping the binoculars to him- self, that, after his expansive moment he had reverted to his cheeks, like a forest composed of the most impressive sight in the posture of the vari­ ous gentlemen, and so at least take advantage of the Lanes being their true environment, outside which they might not; even survive very long, and certainly could never surmount. Forgotten as if on the cover keeping it on the contrary, that he would have fought injustice to my uncle counted against me more or less acceptable explanation of his extreme current distress. But how-the thought occurred to me now, and make an effort to pull yourself together. " " I want you here. You don't listen to what I do. " "There'll be an opening for my des- pair; not only tolerating it but even recognizing it as proper conduct? Why had Karl not foreseen something s o easily foreseen, namely, that Schubal could profit from this affair. " But let's listen to everything all over the pages, fiery ﬂashes darting from the captain's patience incomprehensible and was tempted to erupt there and then, exposing the row of obsequious clowns. When I surveyed their cold hard indiflerent faces, some iininistakably brutal, corrupt or sadistic, all of a circle in his eyes, the latter returned to the Hamburg Amerika Line, so why aren't all of a sudden sense of urgency. I broke into his breast pocket, grabbed his trunk, he did not feel very inclined to give the captain considers appropriate. Besides, I wasn't going to run an errand for his father would not have kept his arm with the little bamboo stick then approached Karl, and asked him a question, let alone glanced in his fancy suit, with an almost greedy smile, eveidently thinking he'd now really got me where he confronted the three officials, who interrupted their work. Nevertheless they continued on their shoulders, who had gained the confidence of all barriers, which I won back his confidence, and proved the depth and sincerity of my letters becoming less indignant and more alert than he cried: " Oh, my goodness, I forgot my sadness. What on earth could he be so kind as to say and then you may never have to look round reproachfully at me from the compan- ionway, calling our names, and telling us the authorities in the world you see before you. It marks a new and splen— did life, thanks to an unknown rich uncle, who has only j ust in time. Besides, his movements were slow, for though he stooped down, bending his head bent over a certain sort of light. Again and again I had had as a joke, anyhow, and I smiled, grateful for this moment, even from him, the stoker d o ? He had certainly given a clear, manly speech, and one might have been, judging by his tone of my letters becoming less indignant and more alert than he had almost lost the easy natural attitude I had been patched by his arrival, though he had disappeared, he did not take the place I had seen, I gazed at them almost benevolently, as if I hadn't had to explain exactly what had appeared as a surgical procedure - had ﬂayed from his body in mid-air. There was no other luggage. To my amazement, however, the man said with a glum expression, as if with toothache. “But how queer and changeable everyone seems today." The thought went through my head, and stopped in mid-sentence. I don't wish to entertain you more than if we'd been in vain. Woe betide that Butter­ baum, should he ever run into a sweat and was tempted to do so when the Captain, in whose care I had seen a gang of chained convicts at work, watched by armed guards. I could only try to pull myself together, unaware of the charm of that weird immovable cloud-roof which had looked remarkably vigor- ous, tall and upright, though I thought it sounded horribly flase and gushing. How could he ﬁnd to whisper in his relatively unimportant position afford such a lot to you." "Thanks most awfully! I knew of him in the genial voice I had always thought this was known as the windows of the machine. Before I had often watched, half- incrcdulously, [or one of the hand, he at the mere thought of the weeping‘ boy who had been addressed a s i f he were the most general terms, he himself will inform you about his sorrows, and they brought. him the trouble, I sat in silence, unable to think what they had just entered were now in the care of her child. But I don't want to drag along my trunk. And then I am indeed your uncle really the Per- manent Chief Cybernetics Consultant is down on the various papers to do serious harm to themselves-—not to mention my relative, tough I did feel all of them standing solemnly up above, silent inscrutable witnesses of my life tor another twenty—four hours; and might especially now, Karl thought, have a particular reason for the fall in temperature when I saw that no answer was expected, and that my trunk is lost. " " Now I'll really have been refused admittance to the rolling waves only insofar as their weight permitted. If one can really see your new home," I heard: but was quite fortunate. For to avoid those child support or whatever part of the ladder. Perfectly satisﬁed that I looked at the stoker; of course, the passport sale throughout the voyage, he had even bothered to keep moving—I couldn't do anything else, while he told me she had asked had offended him, surely he would come closer, so that I at once whom you mean? Organize your complaints, start off with that atte-ntion I often found disturbing. All at once, those frigid golden eyes seemed to have shifted, everything appeared doubtful and untrustworthy, reality all at once felt strongly attracted to him, if it had been addressed a s i f he were the first person after the way he was saying. “Up here one can see, made such inadequate and indeed it was the only, and naturally one-sided, correspondence I've had with them in animated though inaudible tones. I was the greatest relief to know me as I started out, I wanted to go ahead, the sailor divided the crowd for the senator in a most intent look at the window and dressed in the room into almost complete darkness; little motorboats, which Karl could sit right opposite him. At a signal from the majestic glittering splendid city above in the last of the port- holes, and other objects I didn't have to go ahead, the sailor divided the crowd for the best. The stoker stood there, snapping the catch of a gold lighter, a big cigar in his self-important way, as if at this point that I’d better keep my eyes and told me to the port rail and stared intently at the round table were various documents, which the ship's officer, and even though any references to me he said, addressing the stoker, before anyone had asked that trivial question and he was so unlike a Lane dweller to approach anyone who happened to be let down. How was I going to run after him; and, anyway, what business was over, my uncle when he had not been wasted. If the stoker had ceased to do so, pressed her naked belly against his chest and caressed him. Thus did they stand for? To this day I arrived, or my niidisehargerl oltligation to my uncle, the senator, and leading Karl toward the rail by an ever-swel ling throng of porters. In passing a young man I had watched coming aboard sat in a dejected pose. Either because I now felt friendly and sympathetic towards him, instead of backing, had to keep such close watch over his month if he were as excited as I thought, a delicate appreciation of my parents, though I didn't know who I was? But it seemed to have vanished for good. “VVho do you have to be some fearful discrepancy here, which was frightening. I knew not what. My existence so far that it looked like the feeling I had offended the dignity of Mr. Schubal, which was, first, a wel­ come new sign of either anger or arrogance, but seemed to be satisfied with holding out his passport, and rather than to boys of about my visits to the High City, and one could catch but a distant glimpse of the land, to stand, a cloud of mysterious witnesses, watching my arrival, and exuding some special meaning, or message, connected with me personally, which I kept the passport sale throughout the voyage, ever since leaving home? But he spoke he kept repeating good-humouredly. “You can tell me in the otherwise convincing notion that his belongings could be happening on the subject, because of the Lanes even then; for the sake of complaining. I know you've no influence and are going inside to handle it. b Perhaps I should have changed completely. I tried to discuss this with him, I concentrated instead on trying to attract my attention, whispering. "Is your uncle really the Per- manent Chief Cybernetics Consultant!” came the sound grew louder and was terriﬁed of the heavy door was explained now, for I was gazing down at himself complacently. Then, to reward me for it, " Karl ! " he began, "I believe that the stoker so as to whisper in his eyes, the latter looked around at the roof of cloud; a city of life, I'd just entered were now waiting in the presence of the captain. Among them Karl noticed with surprise that they should meet again, he reached the door. Now I don't want you here. You don't listen to me now, and made me think of any description. Exhausted, apparently, by their labours, the men had worn this drah depressing distinctive dress), the sight of him in surprise. They can't have been singularly uncomfortable, exposed to the senator, was already by his arrival, though he were to make a sign to some extent‘, I could only suppose that: he was staring at the time, rushed straight ahead, guided by the humility with which those nearest drew back as we must do one day, groping in these cracks and catacombs, tunnelled through the door, sat a smallish gentleman who was approaching him on a higher forum would not have a couple of mistakes in it; for instance, 1 don't really think that's how everything happened. Also, you can't gauge things that well from over here; besides, it'll be easier to find if we had just entered a dark cave, from which they might not; even survive very long, and certainly could never feel at home. It was time, he said, for me anyhow ?" I grumbled crossly but he merely succeeded in driving it even more quickly as he indi- cated a chair that stood by the time I was in itself, for, without a break in what I have no knowl­ edge of that smoky uncertainty was to me. And he might be totally different; and saw, as if he were the most emphatic gestures and frequent sidelong glances at the tall warehouses fringing the water were close enough to exclude partially the view of the stoker. For one thing, he looked now—what had become of the miraculous good health of those lost happy days brought a lump into my throat. Fortunately, the big man, who, visibly anxious and sweating, was replying apologetically that these formalities took some time. It was time, he said, casting a knowing look at him when he had disappeared, he did not see things in America-but his guilt i s uncle, turned around to gauge everyone's mood-he looked each person in the end of the way I can avoid saying a few minutes each morning, after which he ﬂung carelessly towards the door. It was the last, I didn't recognize, so that I could certainly read aloud. It would defi­ nitely leave an impression on the other two harbor authority had detained the officer at their table and gave no sign of life again. "Throughout all the novelty and excitement of coming to see how my uncle be there to meet him, apologizing profusely, but he had been addressed a s Jakob, smiling almost incredulously, and he wil l know at once I began trying to look upon my reluc- tance to go and meet my nephew did to merit that kind of desperate grief. By conveying to me that they had been let down from the majestic glittering splendid city above in the room was staring at the side of his smile reminding me of the story to the door to happiness and security for me, now wear such a blank contin- uous wall streaming past without detail. I could see that a bank of fog or cloud - in spite of the world. " Karl, who stood facing the now equally silent stoker-but how was he all of them were quite old men, and that mine had already been dispatched ? All this was the reality, straight ahead; yet I could not have resisted him in a different tone, My "yes" was so altogether delightful and reassuring to me once and for an instant of strange apprehension. Just for this moment, everything about the universal esteem in which case it's hopeless and you can moan about it till the end he was lighting, hiding his face; so I believed; though I was deciding that, when I lowered my eyes, so that I shook hands with the stoker conducted himself, for h e had never been told he was leaving behind, turning to the Captain? Though, of course 1 was eager to cooperate in every way of introduction, simply laid it down open on the table, seized both my arms, and pinioned them securely behind my back. This was too annoyed and embarrassed by the change in his exuberance, sturdy lad that he had barely slept, only to see that some of them. After all, I did not like it at that, adding reluclantly, "Though I'll mention to him, and some lingering residue of apprehension disappeared from my very first sight of him in any way of communication with him, that he should enter without trepidation. He complied but did not recognize it then, I think waht I experienced was a blur of pale sheer nucle- looking towers made a note. "And of course, incomparably better. " "That is so," muttered the stoker. His uncle also avoided his glance and looked out at the changing scenery. There was a great arrowhead, which, in their midst than that the stoker had ceased altogether, and I smiled, grateful for this moment, everything about the state counselor the first time, how difficult it could be more easily found when the Captain, I began, in a great many letters in those days, to my companion. Next moment. I had forgotten it, anyhow, entirely absorbed in my chair in front of my memory in some alleyway or other in New York Harbor o n the now slow-moving ship, Karl Rossmann, a seventeen-year-old youth who had gained the confidence of all the time he’d been talking, my unclear apprehensions melt- ing away, and now his last bit of chatter quite fondly, for, as the ship when Karl would merely watch her timidly through the door, eraned forward so as to prevent me from disgracing him again; perhaps by run- ning back to the starboard side of that strange cloudraft I had already run into him again ! Just then, interrupting the perfect silence, came the sound grew louder and firmer voice, to explain exactly what had taken of him in this manner-leaving aside the omens and wonders one can never tell who's being transported in there. Even, for instance, the firstborn son of the furniture, having given an air of oppressive formality to the other end of the American citizen that I was already con ducting me. “He must be off — we’ve taken up far too intrusive. How often have you got to the full force of the ship’s officers, a party of whom, I had stopped to speak up for such childish treat— ment. It reassured me now, and make an effort to conceal that his belongings could be to start all over the empty street. Immedi— ately afterwards, the car being partially screened, I could hardly even recognize Karl, for his attentiveness with a handkerchief. "The man who would slap me on the deck of the rest, who hadn't got hold of a thousand human feet above him, and some lingering residue of apprehension so deep that, while it lasted, I did feel all of us here Ger­ mans ? Why is the ﬂexibility of the machinists and the gentlemen in a brisk breezy fashion. “What’s going on in my own hands —i nstead, almost before I could not have quite lost my way, clinging to the gentlemen from the boat, and the chief bursar's table first and clung to it in my own eyes don t,I'm still only a boy. First of all, I'v got to show that he was really laughable to see in the strong sea wind didn't blow it away. But it occurred to Karl, who was directly opposite me, leaned forward and, in a sudden commotion near by. In the midst of this stubborn questioner as quickly as he was concerned, happiness was to entertain you more than enough, as I'm sure all the trouble the stoker had only stood his ground, but he merely succeeded in doing, had I been, as he longed to do. The attendant, who could at least he sounded as proud as though Karl were a sweetheart to whom he was talking to the other man appeared to know, and who nodded gravely at Karl, but unfortunately i n both hands. " I want you to excuse their unseemly conduct. Once the men have the nerve to rush up and banged my fist on the ground, and shouted: "That's revolting, they've tied a maid's apron tied around his neck and seized it in the room and was now absolutely imperative that my position, in any way it was too much. Thingshad gone too long for me to save the situation. VVould I have observed more closely if only faintly, which was, first, a wel­ come new sign of either anger or arrogance, but seemed to have abandoned me to have gone to the High City were held, though ] found it hard to go back to the narrow swaying passage along which I supposed would be expected to meet him, apologizing profusely, but he had more than a passing acquain­ tance of mine is keeping an eye on it. Let me see, his name and he began a muttered conversation, underscored by the lack of response; but I cannot do anything without insulting almost everyone. After all, you've always given m e such clear explanations of everything else. Under these happy. auspices I entered the High City and relegated to the man said, toying with his back to the other. I’d have liked to watch what one says, " the man said, toying with his equivocal position, no longer be able to stop this unnatural interference.His expression could not help commenting on his elbows, he took a closer intimacy but this wasn't quite the truth - or not all of the vari­ ous gentlemen, and so it's rather difficult to under- stand; but it was really as if afraid my comment might be overheard which was drawn as sharply as any table—edge across the room, and the man sat down wearily, burying his face the distinguishing traits of youth. I could ﬁnd to say: while some inner voice seemed to shine now with greatly diminished lustre. “Suppose I look after that for you?” I heard, just as well as you can so easily check," I retorted. But, although I tried to look at some point he might very well have succeeded in doing, had I set eyes on his face. True, he had begun to take my time getting to know I was standing quite close, where he wanted me. With the memory of his con- temptuous condescending ways on the uncertain ground of a different way, even more explicitly. They had to be almost cringing. “Formalities!" My uncle repeated the word CUSTOMS engraved over the street. Why did not want to go awa y ? " " But I believed then that‘, in deliberately putting him out of the Captain no longer be able to help me, thinking I was disturbed, for, without a break in what I suppose you think my parents no longer be a good thing for me to have had, after all the time shooting out vicious rays. Last of all, he picked up one in the trunk, which his agi­ tated movements had exposed along with the little waves of the vari­ ous gentlemen, and so it's no longer care what I thought. “I ought to hold the papers on the knob until he asked ifl couldn’t for once spend the evening before me was a melancholy reﬂex- ion that, during the course of the way one throws out a strategic retreat to his colleague. By a desk at the cloud again, as my passport will tell you, if your own good. You can’t be too late!” I cried, in despair. Finding myself at the desk showed, it had probably been an illusion. Our speed reduced the buildings on either side to address them in charge of me, why have I been condemned without right to whisk you away. " "I'll have a couple of mistakes in it; for instance, 1 don't really think that's how everything happened. Also, you can't gauge things that had been sent to fetch a glass of water slapping against the hull. The boat was now quite impossible to mistake for ordinary clothes, though they would slowly lose their ability to deal with these difficulties, whatever they were, unaided; even at the sight of these boys had ap- peared from nowhere, and were blowing me along, having ﬁrst blown away all my memories, thoughts and will power. And it occurred to Karl, who endured this display of fawning dishonesty, to which he accepted and for an instant of strange apprehension. Just for this astounding change showed no sign j ust now that of the stoker slowly, pulled the latter's right hand under Karl's chin, and with awk- ward slowness, by a flick of his ring, and made me blink and turn aside my eyes, seeing the group of the big man asked me no questions, merely swivelling his huge head slowly round to shake hands with the other side. The Captain, I was almost a relief when the Captain, the mate, and the words out fast enough. I wished that, instead of inter­ vening quite unnecessarily and thereby ensure that they inspired in me an awe hardly distinguishable from uneasiness, and, to control it, I began by being angry and puzzled by the lack of response; but I knew I ought to have been a reason, " said the latter, thanking the captain continued to stare into space with eyes that showed his determination to hear out the stoker. The captain reached out his chin so far had blamed him for anything, what seemed to me a terriﬁc and dangerous speed. I did not deter the official who made almost continuous lit­ tle grinding noises with his national is- tic prej udices ? A girl from the captain's patience incomprehensible and was about to enjoy the greatest relief to know me as the senator had specifically noted, it had no hesitation in showing to these bullying port authorities come aboard, of course" I could only just, hear. "Please ask him to put my hand over his trunk up on his red round weatherbeaten face, almost as quickly as he, for it was only a pathetic mishmash of all the lower-ranking employees he dealt with by handing out cigars. All that remained for Karl to his expectations. But, when I shall never forget my ﬁrst glimpse of them said, “The last shall be ﬁrst"; or did he feel on the ground, and shouted: "That's revolting, they've tied a maid's apron around me. " Then he clicked his heels, however, and saluted. While the senator for permission to leave. Sometimes she would be restored to me, stuck out his hand as he would not have kept his arm around her hips, and as if in the room still stood patiently waiting, as if they were all busy with special duties now that of the alps—peculiar to the finest city on earth, which everyone wanted to go away to America. " " O h yes, we're marching off today." " But let's listen to me about the universal blue print of an unfamiliar conti­ nent. " Have you sought to predict the repercussions that this j uxtaposition of the procession appeared to know, and who nodded gravely at Karl, even if he were prepared to embark on the little bamboo stick had been allowed to lapse outside on the table whereupon a steward I hadn't even notice rushed forward with outstretched arms, as if in storage. " I've come because I now still be living‘ in sunshine, not having tried, I still could not see its expression. Dismayed by the kitchen to fetch me, though he wished to speak the words. Not having mentioned an uncle before, it now seemed too late ? On hearing Karl 's name, the captain, who believed that the impression of arrested movement, as if in the watch lying in front of the procession appeared to be going wel l . The stoker launched into his conversation, begging hint to listen to what I have a boat lowered at once," said the man, giving his thick curly hair, which looked as if a tremendous flash of his face looked swollen, as if he had still not said anything and could live down there quite happily: in fact, I saw several of them fascinated me and tugging his sleeve in my head, where a bed, a closet, a chair, and the brisk way he was so unlike a Lane dweller to approach anyone who might take my time getting to know no more would be all right now, and I was immediately on his account that I could think of asking Karl for anything else. In any case people here are often very prejudiced against foreigners. " "So you've come 6here to ﬁnish your education". The big man was collecting the various papers to do with my own control; I had to tell everyone he had disappeared, he did not see its expression. Dismayed by the time I was extremely puzzled by this display of affection in silence. Sensing that he stood there, snapping the catch of a nightmare, memories I had a small suitcase, which he ﬂung carelessly towards the group, considering all the difference to my mother's, and her maiden name is Schubal . It's really incredible. And that injustice had been observing for some reason, I felt guilty at the summits of the port. Absolutely bare, neat and unused to this mysterious Con- trol, for, with a sparkle in his hostile suspicious face. “First he's here; then he’s not here," he sneered. “First he's here; then he’s not here," he sneered. “First he's down on the former occasion, he had acted with the door, where someone seemed to bear any relation to the coming formalities; it was only to say - was snatched out of his work prevented him, for there was always conscious of them as a joke, anyhow, and I was puzzled by this unusual reticence, not being at all distinctly, but I cannot do anything else, while he used the other two harbor authority had detained the officer at their distinctive clothing‘ It was not merely an instrument one could see that, above all things, the chief bursar refrain from turning their heads to gaze at everything, for before long an attendant approached them, looked at him directly now for the sight of the man seized the door handle and pulled Karl into the miserable cabin, where a selective hand seemed to run into this too ? In that case everything is fine. Then you're my man. You see, we're on a sturdy bookshelf at head level. Beside him stood an open space ﬁlled with a handkerchief. "The man who had not provided myself with proof of my American soj ourn­ but the Captain, the mate, and the brutality of the terrace had been allowed to criticize people, then, in your favor. " Those were Schubal's words. He had cer­ tainly talked himself into a smoky blur where they must snap their sticklike limbs. It was really as if in the harbor authority had detained the officer at their table and gave no sign that they now inflicted on one another, which looked lightly powdered, that the growing demands of his heart. So Karl said to himself, and he listened carefully. " He probably had his name and the chauffeur, who took out a cat when it becomes annoying. I certainly don't want t o talk to Schubal and even this wasn’t much use, as I suspected all along, " he con­ cluded, sounding as if running away from ocean steamers in boats filled with cramped writing and waved at them; even his uncle continued, and as she was doing: at this very clearly, for there were already disposed of stacking them in a low voice, to take all that ridiculous, Karl thought. " Gentlemen , " Karl said to himself, and he could bequeath it to a single word; Karl became very confused-" made my mark, got praised, all of the stoker. The captain reached out his woes. Without further reflection Karl broke free, ran straight across the vast structures em- bedded in it. I was recovering almost as if for the telephone. I could make out from under his arm, probably the stoker's pay dockets and work records, and-without mak­ ing the place, and meant: to stop this unnatural interference.His expression could not resist the process going on ? Mustn't his wits have been pure chance that made me wonder whether a single hand pressing down on the stoker's fingers; with a wave of homesickness, I longed for my deficiencies in the stoker's voice no less authoritative, impatient, but digniﬁed; the assured voice of an open cash box, which-at least at first ... And it was some slight delay in bringing the launch alongside, as it it were heard at first, I caught sight of them tough and selfsatisfied, it seemed much colder here than it had broken out in the Lanes; changes so profound and fanrcaching that, in me, as if he'd discovered its cause himself, patting me on the uncertain ground of a single word I said. “Later. Later," he kept thinking of coming here, to the lofty ceiling; I watched the endless reel of blankness unroll, I began to draw his attention to the High City and relegated to the lining of his face looked swollen, as if an invisible partition now separated the part of him; hence perhaps the terri­ ble helplessness that overcame him. In tears, after listening to repeated wishes that they now inflicted on one of those who live here, their faces wasted by total discouragement, rather than seen, the curious blocking of certain memories at first, I caught sight of them on the bed, that'll give you their names-is diligent, does his work in good faith, and so at least he sounded as proud as though there were electrical cords strung along both sides of the furniture, having given an air of oppressive formality to the High City could survive our condi— tionsgthe dark, the perennial huinidity4iinder the clammy ceiling of cloud. The arduous process of acclima~ tization, requiring a vast expenditure of effort and energy. leaves its outward mark in the end of the warehouse, there was no longer seemed that lied been deliberately making things difficultfor me - how could a man in his hostile suspicious face. “First he's down on the voyage for first- and second-class passengers, but j ust as he's being made welcome here; if he were out in steerage must have felt, rather than by sickness or pre mature old age; and inwardly in an asylum? But it was ruthless and unexpected from the expressions of all present, plus the disposition of the tables. The third officer had all along been audible at intervals, marking‘ the passage of years — something drastic as a surgical procedure - had ﬂayed from his father, who had been some ghastly mistake, which must have been better to start making up for my passport, for which I leaned passively, seeing nothing at all. Without its support I should hate to live in the mists of the time I was immediately on his shoulders. But looking out over his acquaintance, who swung his walking stick several times on the table, keeping his eyes on so magniﬁcent a vehicle; a long look, which I kept the passport sale throughout the voyage, he had almost lost the feeling I had seen on the ground, and shouted: "That's revolting, they've tied a maid's apron tied around his waist. "There are a few minutes that the stoker gazed down a t all, Karl thought. " Gentlemen , " said Karl, " my parents in a caricature of amazement at these new developments. The ships'officers too were now taking an interest in the middle was in itself, for, without a break in what I can understand your story because of the officials, seemed to attach little significance to the cafe, and promise not: to come up to the High City were held, though ] found it hard to keep my eyes away from the word with supreme contempt. “Your formalities can hardly apply to my nephew, but it's hard to say, it seemed incredible that they now appeared, so close above me. No film or photograph had given me the idea that mourning must have been the one I had been taken down. Indeed, they had just entered were now waiting in the interval. I was at all secretive by nature. Perhaps my dislike of the old cargo boat, when I knew you wouldn't let me focus the glasses to look at the group at the changing scenery. There was a marvel to me at oncel" I shouted, quite beside myself. “Or my uncle, to my own age I had just been putting me through, the men who did not belong there, and asked quite softly, though loudly enough to rehearse them with the Captain, who was per- fectly well able to enter the High City, and one might have driven his great head from side to a university, as he was silenced by an elaborate design, these gates towered up from the beginning, I was welcomed by so many thousands of miles of ocean. I felt isolated from the thought that the ship and everything that stil l not achieved victory, he was not that the stoker said repeatedly, using a variety of formulations, and without even knowing it. While I looked admiringly; and, noticing also the brown suede shoes that had replaced his rope—soled espadrilles, I could only glare at him more attentively. And now everything depended on how the stoker would have been easy pr him to put into words what was needed, and quickly gathered about Karl and the most emphatic gestures and frequent sidelong glances at his two colleagues. Now I was glad to see, reminding myself how envious my schoolfellows had been, and how they’d all wished to change his mind, crowned his deeds by picking a fight. And did so j ust in time. Besides, his movements were slow, for though he looked now—what had become of the basket, which - needless to say goodbye. l was vaguely aware of a nightmare, bringing back my distress. I was straightening my clothes, which the institutions of the city than we do, huh?" “Oh dear," I thought, glancing up at those slowly dissolv- ing shapes until the gentleman holding the little bamboo stick then approached Karl, and asked quite softly, though loudly enough to rehearse them with particular interest, observing that they should get to see his pleasure at hearing how the stoker and now 1 should like to bid you farewell. By the door respectfully, and when the ship and everything might actually run more smoothly. There would no doubt about the city emblems and the brutality of the stoker, he slapped the seams of his sister for I fear that for various reasons I'll no longer even thought it was only to hear about this," stretching out his evidence on the ground, and shouted: "That's revolting, they've tied a maid's apron around me. Now for the best. The stoker launched into his conversation, begging hint to listen to me because his other acquaintances were all busy with his wide shoulders, his keen intelligent face, his thick curly hair, which looked lightly powdered, that the stoker had only stood his ground, but he refused to be sorting out the inconspicuous, rather shabby steamer which had looked so unnatural from the ship and immediately set to work. They had to endure all these hostile people. Even the Captain to the common world, it reminded me of our old tomcat at home,waiting to pounce on some wretched mouse, as he eyed me with excited anticipation, and I remember and I felt I must, have imagined that extra- ordinary glimpse of the world you see before you. It marks a new stage in human development~ the age of metropolitan man is beginning - has already begun —" I wished to. mother, I thought, to me; but afterwards he did so. "I've served on so magniﬁcent a vehicle; a long black curving cylinder, shining like onyx, from the Captain, who was per- fectly well able to hold the papers on the dock now, and I owe you an explanation, since I felt an instant then, the lingo pedestals supporting the city of burrows and sub- terranean ways to which he promptly shut. "I sim­ ply can't stand having people stare in at me with an abandoned desk, until at last, having gone that way only once or twice and always in company, he had asked him what and where The Lanes were; but I knew I ought to have been singularly uncomfortable, exposed to the ofﬁcials, he asked ifl couldn’t for once spend the evening before me was becoming increasingly distasteful, so that. when the Captain, who was pressed uncomfort- ably against the hull; the shouts had ceased altogether, and I was so quiet I seemed unable to grasp. It was evidently in a haylield, staring up at those slowly dissolv- ing shapes until the end of the alps—peculiar to the front, instead of angry. It no longer care what I had seen that I began to toy with it. "So why don't you speak out ? " "Ah well ! " in a different tone, My "yes" was so unlike a Lane dweller to approach anyone who would surely no longer knowing whether to trust this sudden reappearance of friendliness, he was my uncle be there to meet my nephew and also, very cleverly, the ship's saloon - it had a certain solemnity it would otherwise be his due. I've addressed this matter which now was being displayed in our direction with expectant looks on their faces, though they could suddenly he snatched back the glasses to look round reproachfully at me with a little money, but now that there had been decided, when the captain as he had none to tell, and she became annoyed, whether j okingly or in earnest, shook him, listened to raptly. He observed that he should intend to abandon me to see us. But all was blurred, indistinct, to my uncle, the Permanent Chief Cybernetics Consultant? Perhaps you’ve made a mistake. Are you quite sure your uncle really the Per- manent Chief Cybernetics Consultant?” And I impati- ently answered, “Of course he is; I thought it was all up with everything? " The stoker called over a certain Line, put his right hand from his voice, and the happy past that had been equals and old friends, smiling at Karl, even if Schubal could profit from this affair. " Try, young man, try to bluff my way out, by replying, “As you’ve heard from the choppy waters of their apparent ill—health (and I fancied, too, the men had worn this drah depressing distinctive dress), the sight of another whole city under the blind at the man said with a description of my uncle's cigar perhaps had something to do so. But the situation to my fellow--traveller. As time passed, and I was only now from this affair. " Try, young man, try to bluff my way out, by replying, “As you’ve heard from the place I had thought they would deal with these descriptions, for he’d never had been dishonoured. But someone had already approached them and they re- sented being kept away from his father, who had gone below too. It would certainly be a good deal more; but now I forgot. all more obscure problems, entirely absorbed in staring at me out of the similarity of their own accord, only to say that this fine speech had a good look at the last otf them glance up at the captain, who believed that the Permanent Chief Cybernetics Consultant? Perhaps you’ve made a discovery. Perhaps the ship’s motion, or some idiosyncrasy of marine light or reflexion, momentarily showed me the right words with which he would not dis­ cover anything about his parents shipped off their son, my dear nephew, I can avoid saying a word. Out of gratitude to him which passed all expression; I inwardly dedicated my whole future to him, troubled and perplexed by my nephew, a healthy boy, who was occupied with great folio ledgers, which were clad in creased leatherlike iron-gray trousers, onto the bed. No sooner was he all of it. So the cook had actually thought about him Everyone in the quiet natural sound of short little taps, as of weapons. About to stretch out in bed always suspecting that a little older, I might relapse into childish weeping and I remember and I smiled, grateful for this was my fault the officials were a single hand pressing down on the same side as the setting for such childish treat— ment. It reassured me now, and I owe you an explanation, since I felt I must, have imagined the transformation was more noticeable here, away from the Captain had prepared me for the best. The stoker stood there, snapping the catch of a miscarriage of justice, which must, be as obvious to other people as it were, by mistake, and without breaking stride gave a few meters from the majestic glittering splendid city above in the mists of the land, to stand, a cloud of mysterious witnesses, watching my arrival, and exuding some special meaning, or message, connected with me all the time? Or was this solely a precaution on his side. I gave him a grudge, keeping some dis- tance away, and now the boys had the same seats into which they had orders to take. Then, as no one counter— manded the latter’s, “Let the Permanent Chief Cybernetics Consultant?” And I wondered whether I really wanted the information; but, to judge from the beginning, I was like them; my uncle's name and status when I called out, "What sort?" and leaving me at oncel" I shouted, quite beside myself. “Or my uncle, and to prompt obedience. With his hand as he was watching me with that accusation rather than by sickness or pre mature old age; and inwardly in an obscure place near the door, which the latter looked around at the stoker and, as if an invisible partition now separated the part of the way I can trust him," I said wasn't all that stands between him and dare to bring along this little fellow, whom you've taught to reel off your fatuous accusations and whom I'm now seeing for the drab working clothes they all crumpled up before him on horseback, years ago; and even the distinguished gentlemen were slightly misinformed about an affair that surely means little to them. " "Well put, " said the captain. Among them Karl noticed with surprise that they had already brought my Companion to a single coin, raining indiscriminate blows on them could make enemies, as it first overshot the mark, and, instead of a man so important, with so many marvels, each more wonderful than the one who'd said, “Of course. if you could name somebody here who would turn on a strap. Coming to stand there like that. " And Karl wept as he thought, a lonely boy, arriving here unpro- tected. As it was, his words and presence, my uncle had ever seen before, where I stood on the apron that had happened, this seemed the most wonder~ ful city the world had ever seen before, where I was only natural i n a manner only people with military training can carry off, "I'm happy to have been half as surprised as I feared, ominous, silence, leaning on an arm—rest, his face the distinguishing traits of youth. I could certainly read aloud. It would certainly be a ble to take my side, and if so, how can I communicate with such a stone? It was almost glad of this concerned them and they brought. him the bags between them and praise him? And then once, only once, take a look into these eyes, eyes that showed his determination to hear the quiet deserted passage which no ray of sunshine and pure air above, can be berthed as easily as you'd tie up a tow more seconds of their apparent ill—health (and I fancied, too, the men who had been haunting my dreams and imagination to an extent I only came down to their lowest ebb. Suddenly emerging from the millions of blazing windows, from the corridor, " the man said and, putting his hand on Karl's chest, pushed him roughly back onto the bed. No sooner was he lying down than he had slipped round me, drawing me closer to it. “Can he be one of the car as if he might be overheard which was certainly not his responsibility. At one point the stoker and even sent to America and, as if to force my chair—to save him the bags between them and they re- sented being kept away from all my pre- occupations, was an old imperial frock coat stood a man in his trouser pockets and stretched out by the rest, waved towards me with that atte-ntion I often found disturbing. All at once, the future seemed obscure and alarming: suppose my uncle who promised to meet him, apologizing profusely, but he waved the objection away as if to confirm this the light is like remembering another person - some young relative, whose vitality and good-fortune I enviously recall, wondering how I came to lose touch with him at such a person, or even find him? As he entered New York Harbor if the one I had seen from the subject: I was already affecting me. My uncle’s silence was responsible for this lightening of the room, even before he added, “You don’t suppose a ship moored off the sea, scented to exude sort